Former secretary, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. John Hayab, has urged the governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el’Rufai, to stop pointing accusing fingers at others and instead, take a hard look at the mirror to guide his utterances and poor political equation. In a response to el’Rufai’s statement on Twitter where he described Peter Obi as a bigot, Hayab’s media office said that the comment is “condemnable, unfortunate, heightened suspicion and distrust.” The cleric said that happenings in Kaduna State in the last three years, especially the recent statements by the governor, had compelled him to speak as a citizen and a stakeholder who believes in the unity and diversity of Nigeria. He said that it seemed that Governor el-Rufai takes pleasure in making inciting comments about others but unable to know that his leadership style is worse than that of those he is quick to accuse. Hayab said: “When some Christian leaders years back complained about how he made mockery of Jesus on his Twitter page, it seemed then that they deliberately accused him of such a recklessness for political reasons, but little did we realise that such inflammatory comments were el-Rufai’s trademarks. “For instance, since el-Rufai became the governor of Kaduna State, many of his utterances have been either to insult or denigrate some individuals or groups of people. In fact, his recent tweet accusing Mr. Peter Obi of being ‘a tribal bigot’ clearly shows that the governor needs to look at himself in the mirror. “Although, I am not from South East Nigeria, but a visit to Awka and meeting the people on the streets of Onitsha showed that the man el-rufai wants Nigerians to believe is a ‘bigot’ led Anambra State with an exemplary leadership style of tolerance and the promotion of peaceful coexistence unlike el-Rufai who has polarised Kaduna State with divisive actions and inciting utterances. “My dear governor el-Rufai, you cannot go to the social media every now and then making divisive statements about the populace of our dear state, only to come back to accuse other Nigerians of being bigots,” he said. “My dear Governor, please stop your divisive and distractive statements and actions and look inward to remove the speck from your eyes before attempting to help remove the splinter in others,” he added.