The senator representing Rivers South East constituency, under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Magnus Abe has alleged that the dictatorial leadership of the minister of Transportation and director general of the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO), Rotimi Amaechi, may hurt the party badly in the forthcoming elections, even as he alleged that the minister humiliated him in the presence of his (Abe’s) wife. In an interview in the recent edition of The Interview magazine, Abe accused Amaechi of running a one-man show and stoking a personal cult. Abe said his actions are the major reason the ruling All Progressives Congress may perform poorly in Rivers State. He said, “For Amaechi to come to my house, call me in front of my wife and tell me not to try contesting was the height of it. Responding to him I said, ‘I will not accept that. I will contest.’” “My grievances with the Transportation Minister,” Abe said, “have nothing to do with him supporting me or not supporting me. I have told him clearly that he is free to support who he wants to support. My disagreement with him is that he said I should not run, and I said I will run.” Abe narrated how the feud between him and Amaechi, who used to be his ally and friend, spilled into his family circle when the minister visited him at home. A statement by the managing director The Interview, Azu Ishiekwene, said, “The Abe interview plumbs the recesses of the problems with the APC in one of the most strategic southern states and gives more than a hint of the dire consequences ahead for the ruling party.” Abe also spoke of the APC’s riotous primaries in the Rivers State and the subsisting court judgement which potentially rules out the party from fielding a candidate in the governorship election next year. Ishiekwene who doubles as the Editor-In-Chief of the magazine, said in the new edition of the magazine, Julia Fortune-Johnson, a stage three-cancer survivor shared her experience and lessons learned. Leading public speaker, Niyi Adesanya offered tips on how to overcome the fear of death on the big stage. He said Italian-based Nigerian fashion entrepreneur, Ijeoma Meribe-Nnorom, also talks about how she is putting Nigeria firmly on the Italian couture map.