The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) yesterday awarded 18 year old, Miss Isabelle Gelegu an indigene of Esan North LGA of Delta State as over all best student in 2017. Isabella, who was a student of Oritamefa Baptist Model School Ibadan scored distinctions in all the subjects he sat for to grab the 1st prize of National Distinction/Merit Award 2017. Other two WAEC candidates who excellently performed in the examination to grab the second prize kept by Nigeria’s  apex examination body, includes Miss Favour Ngozi Etuonuma of Eucharistic Heart of Jesus Model college Ilorin, Kwara State as well as Miss Adenike Temitope Adedara of Louisville Girls High School IjebunItele Ogun State, the 2nd and 3rd prizes of the same National Distiction Merit Award. The award was bestowed on the three girls at the WAEC 56th Annual General Meeting of the Nigeria National Committee (NNC) 3-day meeting in Calabar. Speaking at the ceremony,Chairman of the NNC, Dr Lami Amodu who presented the  awards on the awardees alongside other WAEC staff who the examination body claimed had meritoriously served the exam body without any bad record, stated that the honor  was to encourage other staff and students to encourage  education in Nigeria. Apart from that,the council also gave award to three secondary schools in Cross River for being adjudged best  in  2017.  The three schools also jointly won a prize of $5000 from the Endowment Fund Book for the aggregate results in to WASSCE for school candidates in 2017 The secondary schools that bagged the awards in Cross River State includes, Assurance community secondary school Ovubra in Obubra LGA (1st), Hillcrest College Calabar, 2nd(private) and Federal Science College Ogoja, in that order.  The secondary schools took home the prizes, and trophies to encourage others to borrow suit. The xam body further bestowed  award of excellence to 14 of its staff who had assiduously work towards the development and growth of the exam body in the last 20 years. “The awards were not based on academic excellence alone. The schools were also found not to have been involved in any form of examination malpractice during the WASSCE for school candidates 2017”. Amodu maintained. The Occasion was rounded off with Gov. Ben Ayade of Cross River State who was the special guest of honour, donated 500,000 pieces of free school uniforms made from the state Garment Factory and called on schools and WAEC not to base examinations on theories but ensure that students are exposed to more practicals and real life situations so as to meet up with realities of life. 