The president of the Senate, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki, yesterday asked Kwarans to resist devilish plot by selfish and greedy local politicians to turn Kwara State to a colony of some frustrated Lagos politicians in the build up to the 2019 general elections. Saraki, asked the people of the state to be wary of such local politicians and their paymasters who see Lagos more of their home than Kwara. The Senate president gave the admonishment in Ilorin, the state capital during the flag off of distribution of multi million naira empowerment items to his constituents in Kwara Central senatorial district, which cut across Asa, Ilorin East, Ilorin South and Ilorin West local government area of the state. Items distributed included 120 tricycles, 170 grinding machines, 300 computer sets and 180 sewing machines. Saraki, who was represented by the director general, ABS Mandate Constituency Office, Alhaji Musa Abdullahi, said the empowerment scheme, another in the series, was designed to make life more comfortable for his constituents in the four LGAs of Kwara Central. Despite some of the obstacles put on his way by those he helped into power at the federal level, Abdullahi said the Senate president has not been distracted in the last three and half years in bringing goodies to the people of his senatorial district. The ABS director general added that many people had benefitted from the empowerment scheme Saraki floated over the years, especially in the areas of education, health, religion, women and youth empowerment as well as financial support for the needy. He urged Kwarans not to be swayed by the antics of greedy and paperweight politicians, who wanted to destabilise the state. “Today’s occasion, which is the presentation of empowerment items to the constituents of the Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki (CON) in Kwara Central senatorial district is in recognition of your support for the Saraki political dynasty and the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. “The gesture of our caring and God sent leader is aimed at making life more comfortable for his constituents in the four local government areas (Asa, Ilorin West, Ilorin South and Ilorin East) that made up Kwara Central. “You will recall that last year, the Senate President’s constituency office distributed 120 nos of tricycles, 170 nos of grinding machines, 300 nos of computer sets and 180 nos of sewing machines to his constituents. “Also, early this year over 220 makeup artists were trained and empowered with makeup kits by the ABS constituency office. “Today, the Senate president has graciously approved the distribution of 100 nos of tricycles ,100 nos of motorcycles, 340 nos of grinding machines, 70 nos of computer sets to various beneficiaries selected from across Kwara Central senatorial district.” The DG added that, “Currently 700 Kwara youths are undergoing training programme on installation and maintenance of solar energy at the instance of the Senate president. He has also promised to equip the trainees after the completion of their training. “I can continue till tomorrow listing our leader’s people oriented programmes, but time will not permit me. “I therefore want to conclude this short speech by asking our people to continue to support our leader. We should be wary of plots by some paper weight, greedy and absentia politicians to turn our state into to a colony of some frustrated Lagos politicians and their cronies who see Lagos more of their home than Kwara.”