Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, has declared that getting re-elected for another term in office is not his priority. He said that his concern is to put the state on the right track and sound footing while his achievements and reforms in all sectors would naturally take care of his reelection to consolidate on the successes. El-Rufai said: “Being re-elected is not important. What is important is doing the right thing and posterity will judge us. From all indications, from everything I have seen because we call regularly, we are very scientific, we don’t guess in the dark. “In spite of all the risks we have taken and all the people we are supposed to have upset, the election on of March 2, 2019 as far as Kaduna State is concerned. is almost a done deal” he said. The governor spoke yesterday in Kaduna as the special guest of honour at the 2018 National Council on Finance and Economic Development (NACOFED) conference. He said that his administration in the past three and half years undertook far-reaching reforms in the education, economic and health sectors with outstanding results. In the economic sector, he said that his administration created lots of jobs and empowered women with soft loans with plans to do more. On the ease of doing business, the governor said that before he took over the mantle of leadership, the state occupied the twentieth position in 2014, “but as at 2018, Kaduna State occupies the first position in the ease of doing business”. The three-day NACOFES conference is organised by the Federal Account Allocation Committee in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Finance. Mr. Ben Akabueze, the director-general of Budget Office of the Federation, Mr. Shettima Umar Abba Gana, acting chairman, Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, Tue Mab Lee, senior economist, World Bank Group, Mr. Asishana Okauru, director-general, Nigerian Governors Forum and Mr. Tunde Abdulkareem, FAAC post-mortem consultant gave goodwill messages at the opening ceremony.