The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) yesterday pleaded with Christians in Kaduna  State not to lose confidence in the state governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, saying the governor meant no harm in the choice of a Muslim/Muslim ticket for the 2019 governorship poll in the state. The group was reacting  to media reports in which the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) was said to have accused the Governor el-Rufai of fanning the embers of ethnic and religious disunity with his Muslim-Muslim ticket. Speaking with journalists in Abuja, the Director of Communications and Strategic Planning of the BCO, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, said el-Rufai’s choice does not amount to playing the ethnic card as certain persons are trying to make it look. Ibrahim advised Kaduna idigenes to be wary of politicians who hide under the cloak of ethnicism and tribal sentiment to sow the seed of discord and disunity among Nigerians for their personal interest, even as he explained that the governor made the choice based on his conviction that in governance, a leader must choose those he should work with on grounds of competence and trust. He said, “The BCO is of the view that the governor of Kaduna State made his choice of a running mate in good faith. Just like he rightly said, his picking a fellow Muslim is based on his strong belief in competence and the fact that governance has nothing to do with religion and tribe. “Those claiming that the Muslim-Muslim ticket has pitched the governor against Christians and other citizens of Kaduna are the same mischievous politicians or their cronnies who hide under the cloak of ethnicity and religion to fan the embers of disunity among gullible Nigerian with spurious allegations. “We all know that apart from the deputy governorship position, there are other sensitive positions in the state and the governor has promised that the minority indigenous people would be given political representation in the state, depending on their population”. Ibrahim further commended Governor el-Rufai for restoring normalcy in the state after the series of attacks that created the kind of tension that compelled the state government to impose a curfew in the state. “This shows that the governor is not only proactive but is also concerned about the safety of lives and property in the state. The state government, under el-Rufai, has been able to reduce incidences of kidnapping, armed robbery and other forms of criminality along the Abuja/Kaduna highway to the barest minimum. This is in fulfilment of the pledge by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government to tackle corruption”, he added. 