Details have emerged on the sudden resignation of Sokoto State deputy governor and governorship candidate of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto, on Tuesday. LEADERSHIP learnt that Aliyu Sokoto hurriedly threw in the towel because of the move by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)-led executive arm of government and the legislature to remove him from office yesterday. It was gathered that Aliyu Sokoto got wind of the plot and quickly took the drastic step to save his political career from being ruined through impeachment. A source in the state House of Assembly told our correspondent that Aliyu Sokoto’s resignation was not planned. The source said that though “nobody will admit that something was amidst, it’s a known fact that no politician will wake up and resign his post for no just cause, especially when no constitutional provision bars him from seeking any elective office even as a siting deputy governor.” And barring any last minute change, the deputy governor is likely to contest against his boss, governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, should he decide to take over the baton from his anointed godson, Manir Dan’Iya. Shortly after the deputy governor’s resignation letter was read on Wednesday in the plenary of the Sokoto State House of Assembly, the source said that the lawmakers had long expected that dramatic turn of event. The deputy speaker, Abubakar Magaji, who presided over the plenary yesterday, said that he got a letter from Aliyu Sokoto and directed the Clerk of the House to read it. In the letter, the deputy governor said that his resignation took effect from 13th November, 2018. The House admitted the letter without deliberations, hence it scaled through. Some APC executives said that they were behind Aliyu Sokoto. One of them said: “The decision was a tactical one to forestall any unforeseen circumstances.  After all, they said that the PDP now has about 19 of the 30 House of Assembly members. “Therefore, we do not have to fold our arms. We have to go a step ahead of them hence we are already seeing the light at the end of the tunnel. No doubt, our candidate, Ahmed Aliyu, is the next governor of the state, In Sha Allah,” he said.