Adamawa State Governor, Senator Muhammad Umar Jibrilla Bindow has been described as an exceptional student by the principal of his Alma Mata secondary school, ESS Miango, Mrs Mary Gregg Kaltams. Kaltams made the remark during the Miango Old Students Association (MIASO) 2018 Convention and 35th Year Anniversary of the Governor’s set (Set 83) in Miango, Jos, on Saturday. According to her, Bindow was an exceptional student of the school, diligent with a keen analytical mind and it is no surprise that he has been a wonderful administrator and a good governor. “Bindow was said to be a natural born leader, selfless and considerate. He was also an active sportsman, fellow students queue up to play table tennis against him on the board game. His result records is an attestation of how much of a good student he was. “This school and its students are proud of you and all the amazing things you have done for the good people of Adamawa State. It is our prayer that God will give you more wisdom to continue the good work. ESS Miango is proud of you. The people of Jos are proud of you”, she concluded. On his part, one of his classmates of the set 83, a former lawmaker, Hon Aliyu Ahmed Wadada said, Bindow is a team player, always willing to learn more and always asking questions. If it’s not school work or sport activity, he will never be part of such session”. In his award acceptance speech, Governor Bindow thanked the school and the Old Student Association for the award and his classmates for their continuous support and counsel. “My stay in ESS Miango molded me into the man I am today. I knew the true essence of leadership, patience and perseverance in this very school. It is truly an honour to have passed through this great institution of learning. My days here are priceless”. “I am happy to see some of my classmates whom I have not seen in decades. And I wish we could get the chance to play table tennis one more time now like we used to do in this very hall many years ago”. “I thank you all for coming and supporting this school and like always, I wish to pledge that I will build a brand new hostel and a bus for the school. Thank you again and God bless you all”, he concluded. 