The travails of the embattled national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, took another dimension following his reported detention by the Department of State Services (DSS) on Sunday over allegations of bribetaking. His party has, however, refuted the report. LEADERSHIP reports that Oshiomhole’s continued position as party chairman has been under some cloud after the party’s recent primaries with reported threats by aggrieved stalwarts to unseat him. Yesterday, a DSS source confirmed that the outspoken APC chairman was quizzed by DSS operatives for over nine hours over allegations that he took  bribes during the primaries. The source also disclosed that he was pressurised during interrogation by the DSS to resign his position as party chairman but he refused. According to the source, “Adams Oshiomhole was arrested by the DSS. They didn’t show him any petition. It was alleged by some governors that he collected bribes during the primaries. “He was told to resign and he told DSS operatives that he will resign if he loses the confidence of the president. He said everything the party did, he (Buhari) was in the know.” Some APC governors were said to have alleged that Oshiomhole received bribes during the party’s primary elections across the country. However,  when the spokesperson of the DSS,  Peter Nnochinyereonye, was contacted for confirmation,  his number could not be reached. It’s Not True, Says APC The ruling APC has denied that its national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, was detained by the officers of the DSS as reported by the media. Reacting to reports of the questioning of the chairman, the national publicity secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said Mr Oshiomhole was currently out of the country and could not immediately respond to the “rumour”. The party said Comrade Oshiomhole travelled abroad Monday on personal grounds, declining further details about the trip. He said: “We do not have any information on this rumour. More so, the chairman is not around in the country to confirm or deny this. As soon as we have any relevant information, you’ll be updated’