Murder trial of Mayam Sanda, the woman who allegedly murdered her husband, Bilyaminu Bello, took a different twist yesterday as the driver to the deceased’s father disclosed that he observed several wounds and stitches on the corpse while bathing it. The driver, who identified himself as Umar Muhammed was presented as the 5th prosecution witness before Justice Yusuf Halilu of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, sitting in Maitama. While testifying before the court, Umar said he was informed about Bilyaminu’s death at about 5am of November 19, 2017. Upon receiving the information, Umar said he immediately went to the house but the house was empty, and was told that they were at the Maitama police station. He further stated that on getting to the police station, he proceeded alongside family members to the Maitama General Hospital where the corpse of the deceased was retrieved from the hospital’s mortuary. According to him, when Bilyaminu’s body was taken to the Central Mosque where he personally bathed the corpse according to Islamic rites, he saw some injuries on the body. “I saw one on the lap and another on the neck. I also saw bite wounds on the chest and a finger on his right hand. I noticed that the wounds on the lap and neck were stitched,” he said. Umar however didn’t not accuse anyone of inflicting the injury on the late Bilyaminu’s body. “I saw Maryam and her mother at the police station but I don’t know who inflicted the injuries on the deceased,” he said. Umar admitted before the court that he was not aware that only relatives of the deceased or a professional are allowed to bath the dead according to  Islamic rites. He also admitted that he wasn’t aware that the corpse must be covered from abdomen down to the feet before the bath. The matter was adjourned to December 3, for the prosecution to call its last witnesses. Maryam is standing trial alongside her mother, Maimuna Aliyu, her brother, Aliyu Sanda and one Sadiya, who were accused of assisting the accused person to conceal the evidence by cleaning the blood of the deceased from the scene.