The acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, has explained why the anti-graft agency is bent on extraditing former minister of petroleum resources, Mrs Deziani Alison-Madueke, from the United Kingdom. Speaking at a press briefing to mark his third year in office yesterday, Magu said the United Kingdom has not initiated any court proceedings against Alison-Madueke, hence her extradition will not affect anything. Magu’s comments seem to contradict the position of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, on the matter. LEADERSHIP recalls that the AGF had earlier said that bringing the former oil minister back to the country would jeopardise the investigation being carried on her in the UK. Malami had said, “Steps have been taken by the United Kingdom authorities on issues bordering on corrupt practices involving Nigerians. “If Nigeria feels strongly that there is need to bring Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke here to face charges of corruption, government will not hesitate to do that. As things stand now, there is no need for that since the UK government is already investigating her.” But Magu yesterday asserted that, having waited for three years, the Nigeria government believes that it was time to initiate the extradition process. Acting spokesman of the commission, Mr Tony Orilade, disclosed that the EFCC’s operations department had made presentation to the Legal Department to commence the process, and it had commenced. He explained that the action had to be processed through the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation, adding that it was not something the commission would begin and conclude on its own. Meanwhile, the EFCC boss, Magu, has revealed that in his three years in office, the EFCC has secured 703 convictions. “The breakdown is as follows: 103 convictions in 2015, 194 convictions in 2016; 189 in 2017 and 217 from January 2018 till date. In the past three years, we have set recovery records to the envy of virtually all law enforcement agencies in Africa. It is on record that about 90 per cent of all recoveries in Nigeria is through the EFCC,” he said. Magu went on to list the cash recoveries on his watch, through interim or final forfeiture orders of court: Over N794 billion, over $261 million, £1, 115, 930.47, €8, 168, 871. 13,  and CFA 86, 500. For non-cash recoveries, he said: “Hundreds of properties such as filling stations, petroleum products, land, jewelry, automobiles, real estate, vessels, hospitals, company shares and heavy machinery and broadcast equipment have been seized from corrupt elements between 2015 and 2018.” Magu further disclosed that “from 2015 to 2018, 407 mansions were seized, 126 have been forfeited finally and 281 are under interim forfeiture. Nine filling stations were seized and placed under interim forfeiture. Lands seized sums up to 98, of which 56 are under interim forfeiture, while 42 have been forfeited finally to the federal government.”