The presidency may have finally stepped in to assuage stakeholders because of the crisis currently bedevilling the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), many wonder if this will calm the raging storm within the party. ANDREW ESSIEN writes. The primaries held by the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have come and gone, but the trail of crisis it has generated is threatening the overall fighting power of the party ahead of 2019. With many aggrieved party men and women across the country, the blame has naturally landed at the doorstep of the present Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). At its last convention that saw the coming of the Oshiomhole-led NWC to pilot the affairs of the party, pundits had averred that a new lease of life had come for the party and that the issues that were the antithesis of the John Odigie-Oyegun era may have come and gone, considering the reception that greeted the new leadership’s ascension to power. However, with the contentious issues that have arisen because of the outcome of the primaries across the states, it was evident that the presidency would have to get involved since it was an interested party ahead of the general elections. At first, the process was greeted with so much enthusiasm by most party faithful who felt that the solution to a one-man-takes-all system that had finally come. This was in light of the mode of primaries. Inheriting a party where APC governors were having battles with senators and other interests, the party leadership succumbed to pressures to allow states determine the mode of primaries that soothes them. They were stuck with either the direct or indirect primaries. But in the process of time, some party stakeholders and indeed a segment of its leadership would soon realise that even with that process, alot of ‘influential’ persons would be swept away with the growing tide of anger that had slowly enveloped the electorate at their different wards. As a political analyst Lanre Abiodun succinctly said in an interview “if politics is local, they (political leaders) must be able to look at their constituents in the eye and give account as to the stewardship they have provided in the four years allotted, to deserve another”. The greater test however was after the implementation of the primaries. As it now stands, all hell seems to be let loose as crisis from the primaries in almost all parts of the country, on daily basis are erupting with protesters in their numbers continually besieging the national secretariat of the party with one form of complaint or the other. For instance, protesting aspirants from Niger State had accused the APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of plain wickedness, saying the plan to upturn their victory would be fiercely but legally resisted. Recall, protesters from the state had besieged the national secretariat of the party in Abuja to protest against the emergence of various candidates they felt emerged through questionable means. Mohammed Bima, Mohammed Sani Musa and Zakari Jikantoro who said they won the tickets for the three senatorial constituencies of Niger State accused the national chairman of planning to offer automatic tickets to the incumbent senators who they described as working for the Senate President, Bukola Saraki. Bima said, “I don’t think even the PDP will do what our party is trying to do. What the national leadership is trying to do is wicked; it is more than short-changing us. It is wicked but our next line of action would be in accordance with the laws. “Our leaders should discountenance whatever is corrupt and tag along with our President in his anti-corruption efforts. Nothing should be done to take the party backwards because our founding fathers have done a lot to reposition the party. Anything done to put back these three senators will kick the APC out of Niger State. We call on Mr President to step into this matter because we don’t want our party kicked out of the state. “Our governor has gone round and even met With Oshiomhole pleading that those who emerged from the primaries be allowed to fly our tickets, but all these fell on deaf ears. The people that have been sustaining this party, everything must be done to keep them. These three senators had long abandoned our party, not paying levies. The leadership must know that these are not the friends of the party. We want to go to NASS to ensure that our people are not denied their legitimate rights.” He said the first exercise having been conducted as scheduled, “the second panel only came with an instruction to affirm the three current senators. “That was after the exercise had been conducted and we were given the result sheets and all that”. Mohammed Sani Musa also said they will do everything to protect their mandate. Another group stormed the secretariat to air its grievances a week later. This time, it was from far away Rivers State and their demand was for Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) to respect court orders in trying to resolve the crisis in its chapter. The protesters were led by Amb. Anosike Odowa, Hon. Bethel Oko Jaja and Hon. Onyeche Uloma. This call was amplified by the Senator representing Rivers South East, Magnus Abe who while lamenting the festering crisis in the state chapter of the APC, noted that the possibility of putting an end to it was uncertain as a result of the continued reign of impunity and disregard for dissenting views by some leaders of the party in the state. Odowa, while addressing journalists said; “the indirect primaries conducted by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has been voided and in law cannot stand. He warned the APC to be wary of repeating the same mistake it did in Zamfara which led the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to bar it from fielding candidates for the next general elections. “We are stakeholders in this party and I will advise the National Chairman to be upright and Amaechi should stop pushing him, this party is not Amaechi Peoples Party, it is All Progressives Congress party not Amaechi Personal property. We want to ask that the national chairman should live up to expectation and do the right thing. We know him to be a man who is upright but he should not allow his integrity to be questioned in this matter. Rivers state is for direct primaries and Magnus Abe emerged winner of the direct primaries”. In his seperate statement, Senator Abe dismissed allegations that the crisis in Rivers APC began after he started hobnobbing with the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike at his (Abe) thanksgiving celebration which was attended by the governor, senators and ministers. He said “the foundation of the crisis in the party is intolerance of dissenting views, impunity, high-handedness and lack of respect for others. Disregard for all rules and laws including the constitution of the party and even orders of courts of competent jurisdiction. Until this is addressed the crisis will continue and singing Wike as a song will not change anything” “Our attention has been drawn to a statement issued by Mr. Chris Finebone whose election as Publicity Secretary of Rivers APC has been nullified by the judgement of a court of competent jurisdiction spewing fire and brimstone against a judicial officer and the court of law. The statement also attempted to retool a tired and monotonous blackmail of an imagined collaboration between Sen. Magnus Abe and Gov. Nyesom Wike. “This same tendency and inclination to become a law unto themselves, thrive in impunity, intimidate everyone with contrary opinion, disobey lawful orders and trample on the will of the people is the very root of the challenges confronting Rivers APC today. Instead of allowing for a moment of introspection, Chris Finebone and his sponsors are scavenging everywhere looking for people to blame for the problems they themselves created. “It’s a known fact today that many state chapters of APC across the nation are mired in crisis, with many cases in court arising from same attitude demonstrated by the leader of Rivers APC to subdue the voices of the people. Are all those cases also instituted in collaboration with Gov. Nyesom Wike? Was it Gov. Nyesom Wike who collaborated with the Minister of Transportation to exclude thousands of Rivers APC faithful who paid money to the party to participate in the congresses?” He asked more questions thus “was it Governor Wike who instructed the Minister to order security agents to open fire on innocent APC members who were protesting their exclusion from participating in the congresses? Or did the Minister collaborate with Wike by hijacking materials for APC congresses to INTELS camp in Port Harcourt away from the reach of party faithful?” Aggrieved members from Zamfara State chapter of APC are also not holding back their protest. The primaries in the state sparked  palpable anger, bitterness and series of threat which pervaded the rank and file of the party to the point that the APC may not field a candidate for the various seats up for grabs there. The dust raised by the congress staged to elect new leaders for the party across the 14 local government areas of the state, is yet to settle as those said to have followed party’s guildlines were allegedly shut out from the exercise. The scenario has since led to emergence of two factions, with one half belonging to Governor Abdulaziz Yari, while the other half belongs to Senator Kabiru Marafa. The issues in the state has degenerated to a level that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) barred the Zamfara State chapter of the APC from fielding candidates to contest in the 2019 general elections after failing to conduct primary elections. The commission had set October 7 as the deadline for parties to conclude their primary elections to elect candidates, but divisions within the state chapter of the APC prevented an INEC-supervised election from taking place for the governorship and legislative positions. With uncertainty over what the implication of the failure to meet the deadline means for the party, INEC has cleared the air and declared that the party will not be allowed to field candidates at next year’s polls. The letter from INEC has already been communicated to the party’s leadership even though it has stoutly rejected the electoral umpire’s position, insisting it has a candidate. While there seems to be respite in Kaduna State following the defection of Senator Shehu Sani, in the State In the southern part of the country cases of angry party members abound owing to one form of grievances or the other arising from the primaries. It is no longer news that Imo State is another frontier in the crisis rocking the party. The Governor, Rochas Okorocha, is pulling the strings for his preferred candidate, Uche Nwosu at one end while the NWC is insisting on the candidature of Sen Hope Uzodimma. The same scenario is playing out in Ogun State, where the Governor, Ibikunle Amosu has been at daggers drawn with the national leadership of the party over it’s refusal to recognise his political benefactor as governorhsip candidate of the party. Analysts have opined that it is imparative, more than ever before, for the party to quickly nip in the bud, the issues cropping up within it’s fold as it is significantly threatening its overall fighting power in 2019. To this end, President Muhammadu Buhari last Tuesday met with aggrieved aspirants of the party in the just concluded party’s primaries across the country ostensibly to placate them from “jumping ship”. This was after he had “followed up” with aggrieved serving APC governors who expressed reservations over the conduct of the party’s primaries in their respective states. Prominent among the aggrieved governors are Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara, Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun and Rochas Okorocha of Imo. The president at the meeting urged aggrieved APC aspirants to remain faithful to the country. The President also told them to hold fast on integrity as there will be more opportunities along the way for them to serve. The adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, who revealed this in a statement quoted the president as saying “We must maintain our faith in the country.” The President recalled that he contested presidential elections three times before coming to power in 2015, adding that providence will always pave the way for the just, committed and patient politician who wants to truly serve the country. “I spoke with the APC party chairman almost every other day, at least for an hour during the primaries. And sometimes, we met for two and half hours on ensuring internal democracy during the primaries,’’ the President said. He pointed out that in spite of all efforts to appease everyone and give them a chance at the polls, some aspirants were still not treated fairly. “I urge you to stay faithful if your objective is to serve the country. I came back to power in this “agbada’’ to convince Nigerians to make sacrifices that the country needs now for a better future,’’ he added. A governorship aspirant from Nasarawa State , Alhaji Aliyu Wadada, however told reporters that the President assured them that their cases would be looked into and justice served. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate ), Ita Enang, confirmed that the aspirants pledged to work for the party . He said , “ The meeting went very well and the aspirants showed the spirit of comradeship and pledged to work with the President and all the candidates that the party has chosen and filed with the Independent National Electoral Commission . “ The aspirants were very conciliatory and the President showed fatherhood . ” In his remarks , the Minister of Justice and Attorney- General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami , said the meeting was organised to address grievances and fallout from the APC primary elections across the country . The minister said it would be unfortunate to allow the grievances to overshadow the challenges before the country , assuring the aspirants that the government would assuage their yearnings to serve the country . On whether this will produce the needed reconciliation that the party desperately needs, a chieftain of the party who craved anonymity said “the move by the president to intervene is a step in the right direction as most aggrieved aspirants do not want to dialogue with the leadership. “Our national chairman wants to put things in order, but this is not going down well with a section of the party. I believe that with the president’s Intervention, people will see reason and allow due process to take place”. However, others are of the opinion that this may be a little too late, insisting that the way the party has handled the primary issue leaves little to be desired. Chief Peter Nwosu, a party stalwart in the Southeast says “Don’t you think the President should have intervened at the earlier stages of the exercise? Don’t you also think that the party leaders should have been less combative in the enforcement of what they think is the right course of action? Now that aspirants are already trying to negotiate their political future, they are beginning to talk about reconciliation” In the final analysis, the APC must act fast in redoubling it’s effort towards assuaging aggrieved party men and women if it must have a good chance ahead of 2019. It must also be reminded of the ever present potency of the other opposition parties who are also making adequate preparations for an impressive outing at the general elections.