Daughter of the former Senate President, Mrs. Blessing Onuh has officially dumped the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, after securing the ticket to run for Otukpo/Ohimini federal constituency of Benue state. Mrs. Onuh, who moved from the PDP with over 15,000 members was received by a large crowd of supporters at the brick-wall and later drove to the Ochi’ Idoma’s palace to seek the blessings of the traditional ruler. While in the palace with other APGA’s candidates for the forthcoming 2019 general elections, the Ochi’ Idoma, HRM, Elias Obekpa described Onuh as the favourite candidate for Otukpo/Ohimini federal constituency of Benue state irrespective of the political platform. According to the paramount ruler, “Blessing Onuh is my respected daughter in whom I am well pleased”. Addressing a mammoth crowd at the palace sport arena in Otukpo, the APGA candidate described the just concluded primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party as the climax of injustice and impunity. “We all know the circumstances that drove us from the Peoples Democratic Party. It is a story of pains and regret. The so called primaries of the PDP in Otukpo/Ohimini federal constituency  and other parts of the state and that of the entire Benue South senatorial district was a mirage. “But we thank God that a truly progressive party like APGA gave us a platform to prove our worth. I can assure you that the good people of Otukpo/Ohimini will not cast their votes on the basis of political parties, but on performance and character. “Our character and performance will speak for us on election day and no mega party will stop our moving train because we will crushed them if they dare us,” Onuh affirmed. While interacting with journalists on the political implications of her decision to dump a political party that brought her father to limelight, Onuh said; “My family still remain my family and I love them all, but what you are witnessing today is a clarion call from my people who have stories to tell. “The story of my people is that of neglect and deprivation. A story of dejection and lack of infrastructural development. They are beckoning on me to go and represent them in Abuja and bring back those dividends of democracy”. Earlier in his remarks, the Zone C chairman of APGA, Hon. Joseph Ogli, expressed gratitude that the party conducted a peaceful primaries that produced what he described as “eligible candidates” for both federal House of Representatives and State Assembly. Ogli, therefore pledged the support of the party to all candidates, assuring that his party will go into the elections in a peaceful manner, while calling on other political parties to caution their supporters. Some of Onuh’s supporters who spoke to our correspondent stated that with the enormous support she has gotten from all quarters, the APGA candidate is coasting to victory come 2019. One of the supporters who volunteered his name as Prince Mark Audu, affirmed that the election into Otukpo/Ohimini federal constituency of Benue state is done and dusted. “We all gathered to show our support and appreciate her for her good gesture towards the needy and less privileged in our society. For over a decade, Blessing Onuh has embarked on meaningful projects that have impact on the life of the less privileged. “Her projects are not newspaper projects, but reality projects that you can see, touch and feel. You can see the skill acquisition center built and equip by her, and you can equally see the number of children on her scholarship scheme,” Audu stated. Another supporter, Mrs. Roseline Egba, described Blessing Onuh as a personification of blessings to Otukpo, noting that the traditional title bestowed on her as the “Ofianya Ki’doma” “The most highly  honoured woman of Idoma land” by the Ochi’ Idoma was well deserved.