The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the coming gubernatorial election in Kaduna State, Hon Isa Ashiru has said that the allegations leveled against him concerning the genuineness of his school certificates are diversionary. Speaking while receiving a group, ‘Ashiru/Katung Support Group, the PDP candidate said he has been contesting elections with his certificates adding that they are genuine documents he can prove anywhere. “The allegation is diversionary from the main issues,” Ashiru said adding that the people of Kaduna State know what they want. “My credentials are genuine,” Ashiru insisted while debunking allegations from some quarters that he has issues with his certificates. While urging politicians to focus on issue based campaigns, Ashiru said: “We are giving the people peddling this lies two weeks to retract this libelous comments.” Ashiru who is contemplating a libel case against peddlers of the allegations, said, “I have the right to sue for defamation of character. For some politicians to resort into blackmail, then you know that their time is off,” Ashiru said. While calling on the people of Kaduna State not to fall into the tricks of some politicians he described as desperate, Ashiru said virtually every strata that made up Kaduna –  from students, civil servants, traditional rulers, union leaders, activists, journalists, politicians and innocent residents won’t forget in a hurry what they have been going through in the last three and half years. “I can present my credentials anywhere. My credentials are with INEC. I am calling on the people of Kaduna State to shun the tricks employed by some politicians to divide them,” Ashiru added. Speaking on the group, the gubernatorial candidate said he was greatly honoured to have seen the caliber of people that formed Ashiru / Katung Support Group adding that it was a testimony to the fact that the people of Kaduna State stand for peace, unity, progress and development. “I endorsed this group,” Ashiru said, referring to the Ashiru / Katung Support Group. ” We won’t run a parallel campaign. We want everyone to get involve because if the campaigns starts, it will be ‘House- To- House as you people are championing,” he added. “This is a surprise to me,” Ashiru said of the group while praying God to replenish their efforts.