The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday disclosed that the list of candidates from Ogun State submitted by the Adebayo Dayo-led state executive of the party, loyal to Sen Buruji Kashamu, was rejected by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). This comes as the governorship candidate recognised by the national leadership of PDP, Hon Oladipupo Adebutu, yesterday alleged plots to weaken the PDP and make it lose the governorship election in the state. The national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan who stated this to newsmen, said the list by the Kashamu camp was rejected by the legal department of INEC because it was not signed by the national chairman and secretary of the PDP as required by the Electoral Act. INEC, on October 25 wrote to the national leadership of PDP declaring that in obedience to a court order, it would recognise the list of candidates submitted by the Dayo-led camp, which was rejected by the party. While the PDP had on October 18, submitted the name of Hon Oladipupo Adebutu as its candidate, the Dayo-led camp is presenting, Prince Leke Shitu, as its candidate. But Ologbondiyan, yesterday said the Dayo-led camp had “gone to INEC to submitted the list of candidates. But the legal adviser refused to accept it because it was not signed by the national chairman and national secretary of the PDP.” He added, “State chapters have no capacity to organise primaries and present candidates to INEC. It shows a high level of compromise on the part of INEC to begin to shop for candidates’ list from strangers.” Meanwhile, the governorship candidate recognised by the national leadership of PDP, Hon Oladipupo Adebutu, yesterday accused the Dayo-led camp of causing a distraction to make PDP lose the governorship election in the state.  Addressing newsmen in Abuja, Adebutu likened the moves by the Dayo-led camp to the role played by some PDP members during the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states, which resulted in PDP losing the elections. Adebutu who represents Ikene/sagamu/Remo in the House of Representatives, said, “It is a deliberate attempt to make the opposition party, PDP, a weak party ahead of the election. We saw this in Edo and Ondo states. We saw so much dilly-dallying such that the time we should have spent putting forth our programmes were spent in crisis.” He warned that if the situation is not addressed timely it would lead the nation into a one party state.