ANKELI EMMANUEL in this analysis takes a look at the scheming ahead of 2019 general elections in Sokoto State Yes,  they were in the pitch. All first, second, third, fourth up to eleventh. The match seems an interesting one. After all,  the great Maradona, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal still remains their captain. The tournament is fast approaching. And all coaches are reading the game plans of their opponents. Sure, the host country is Nigeria. The encounters spread across states. Match umpire as usual is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In Sokoto State, like most other states, the most fierce match is to be expected between the defending champions (PDP)  and APC as the  runner up. For the Sokoto PDP, their captain and incumbent governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has just sworn-in his assistant, a former commissioner for local government and community development, Alhaji Manir Dan’Iya as the new deputy governor after the resignation of Ahmed Aliyu. With the development, all seems set for the encounter as INEC will soon open the field. Tambuwal’s first team were the 23 local government caretaker committees whom he has assigned to vigorously campaign and ensure victory at the local levels. The governor’s other team of 33 players are the Advisers and Director General,  media and publicity which are saddled with the responsibility of advising and promoting the governor’s image ahead of the 2019 general elections. The final team of the governor include the 25 commissioners whom he recently appointed. As the game stands, all the 81 players are expected to mobilise support for the governor and all other candidates of the PDP come 2019. Tambuwal’s technical team also include the single Senator left in PDP,  the 18 State House of Assembly and 4 House of Representative members whose collective task must involved every legally accepted techniques to guarantee victory at all cost. After all, those in these categories know better what is at stake should they be defeated. Expectedly, like every encounter, fans and spectators in state have continued to utter divergent predictions over who will take the day. Much as some strive to scrutinize the game plan from a self assessment prism dimension, others see otherwise. Naturally, reactions in the state  are diverse. Speaking on how fierce the game is likely going to be,  a political analyst in the state, Kabiru Danjibo Audi said,  no doubt certain basic stuff will define the outcome. Dissecting the elections from the most important to the least,  Audi said: “The encounter, from all indications is likely going to be so severe that the usual sentiment on the basis of religion might not work. And this is simple. “The presidential candidates of the two most popular parties, APC and PDP, are Muslims with each of them striking the usual balance of having a Christian as their vice. “Looking at the sentiment of region. Yes,  this might play some significant role in the outcome of the presidential election. But certainly not in the governorship election. “Incumbent president Muhammadu Buhari of the APC is from North West. This is the region said to have the highest number of registered voters in the country so far. “The PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar is from the North East region whose electorate are daily faced with the horror of terrorist attacks and thus has less number of registered voters compared to Buhari’s region. “The vice president of the APC,  Prof Yemi Osinbajo is from the South West region whose registered voters is equally high compared to other regions of the regions on that axis. “Bearing this in mind, any fair minded spectator would easily draw the wining chat of the game to say the chances of scoring higher goals is inevitable”. He however, opined that the outcome of 2019 presidential election might not make much inroad into the usual bandwagon stuff. Hence, according to him, some states currently under the control of PDP will become APC and others controlled by APC will become PDP as well. Much as the encounter is already inevitable come 2019, all eyes will now be on Tambuwal’s 81 appointed strikers to go for goals and get their contracts extended or lose the match and get fired by whosoever wins the trophy. Moreover, Tambuwal’s 81 players know the political strength of their opponent (APC)  whose coach, the immediate past governor of the state and Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko has never lost any encounter since the tournament began in 1999. 