The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Directorates of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), otherwise known as Vehicles Inspection Officers (VIOs) yesterday commenced a clampdown on vehicles with various offences such as the use of the old number plates, improper documentation and rickety vehicles. LEADERSHIP gathered that the operation, which was carried out by the VIOs, in conjunction with the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and other para-military agencies saw the arrest of hundreds of vehicles in the FCT, with various offences. The head of public relations unit, FCT-DRTS, Kalu Emetu, told our reporter that exercise is a routine activity by the directorate, aimed at ensuring that vehicles plying Abuja roads are roadworthy, especially as the year comes to an end. Emetu explained that the directorate is also arresting vehicles with the old number plates, following a recent court judgment, obtained by the FRSC, which empowered the officers to arrest vehicles with the old number plates. “We have begun the arrest of vehicles using old number plates. You would recall that since about four years ago the matter has been in court, but recently, the FRSC got a court judgment that empowered them to arrest vehicles using the old number plates.” He stated that already, the directorate has stopped renewal of particulars for vehicles that still have the old number plates, to encourage motorists to key into the new number plate’s project. “One thing with the old number plates is that the data is not captured on the national data bank. When you drive with this old number plate, you cannot be captured in the national vehicles administration data bank. But with the new number plate, we can easily capture your data, such as your name, residence and other details about you.” Emetu warned that any vehicle arrested for not having the new number plate would not be released until the owner does the revalidation exercise, by changing from the old plate number regime to the new plate number regime.