As the 2019 general election draws near, Christians have been urged to mobilise against candidates with pro-same sex marriage agenda. The Young Christian Forum In Nigeria who handed down the warning yesterday in Abuja, said the strategy meeting undertaken by the  presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to Dubai have continued to attract much reactions from Nigerians, especially those that he is contesting against. The national president of the forum, Rev. Hosea Adam Damut who spoke with newsmen said most of the reactions about this meeting have been misplaced. He said true to the  intention masked by the said meeting, people close to the team have been reported to have said they decided on holding the meeting far away from Nigeria because they did not want the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to eavesdrop on their deliberations. “We have now found out that it is true that Atiku Abubakar’s strategy team, ably led by himself, truly did not want to be eavesdropped on. “But the reality that has emerged is that it is the entire people of Nigeria that Atiku Abubakar did not want to know the content of his deliberations, which is why he went beyond the shores of the land. “We find it most irresponsible that anyone from Nigeria will accept the legalisation of same sex marriage as part of concessions he will make to become President of Nigeria, this is seeking power at all cost and at any cost. “The Young Christian Forum of Nigeria is alarmed that anyone on this earth could compromise the true African and custom of our people by giving in to Satan. This is worse than selling Nigeria’s birth right for a mess of pottage. This is a clear case of inviting God’s wrath on Nigerians. “We are therefore calling on all Christians and the elected of the Most High children to be cautious and watch against the entrenchment of Sodom and Gomorrah in our land. “Those cities were destroyed by fire and serve as a warning of the eternal fire of God’s judgment. “The Young Christian Forum of Nigeria is therefore calling on men and women of good faith and Nigerians of all religious persuasion to unequivocally speak against any candidate that is out to promote same sex marriage in our country. It is in our understanding that even Islam forbids same sex marriage and the indigenous faiths in the land have no place for same. “Those planning to implement this in Nigeria should speak up now so that we know where they stand before it is too late. “We appeal to those criticising the meeting in Dubai from the economic and political perspectives alone to open their eyes to the real danger. For when God is displeased with a nation, neither its politics nor its economy can save it. Everything will be in desolation and the people shall have cause to gnash their teeth,” he said.