Sokoto north local government chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday, in a statement said it has expelled Inuwa Abdulkadir, the northwest zonal vice chairman of APC. The party insisted that its action was sequel to the fact that Inuwa was invited to appear before a disciplinary committee but declined honouring the invitation. Reacting to the development, the north west zonal vice chairman, in a message sent to LEADERSHIP Weekend, complained that the whole thing was simply a witch-hunt and acting of script for an individual in the party, as no letter of invitation was served him as purportedly claimed. Part of his response read,  “Permit me to state here that I am aware that this complaint was instigated as part of grand design of a campaign of calumny against my person by a particular person who finds my principled positions on matters concerning the party in Sokoto State personally uncomfortable to him. The same person worked to scuttle my re-election as national vice chairman of North West by sponsoring rival candidates”. According to the expulsion statement signed by the publicity secretary, Kabiru Tsoho Kwandawa, Inuwa’s sins against the party necessitated the action. The statement read in part, “It is hereby notified for general information that the Sokoto North Local Government Executive Committee of All Progressives Congress at its meeting of 1st November, 2018 ratified the expulsion of Barr Inuwa Abdulkadir from the party by the Magajin Gari ‘A’ ward of the party. “The decision was sequel to the resolution of the Magajin Gari ‘A’ ward upon complaint filed by one Naibi Umar Abubakar where Inuwa Abdulkadir was invited but failed to appear neither represented before the disciplinary committee, which found him guilty of 20-count charge of anti-party, dishonest activities and his continued absence from party meetings and activities as shown in the complaint based on the provision of Article 21(11) 21(B), 21(D) and Articles 25 of the party’s Constitution respectively”. Scrutinising the whole internal politics in the party, a member of the party, who preferred not to be mentioned said, the battle has lots of undertones. Inuwa further warned that he would not condone further blackmail or slandering of his name by anybody, no matter how highly placed such a person assumes he is.