South East Governors Forum has rejected yesterday’s police report that the security incident  that occurred at the Abuja residence of the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu was a burglary and not assassination attempt. The group made their position on the matter known through the director general of the forum, Professor Simon Uchenna Ortuanya during  a press conference in Enugu, yesterday. The governors called on the police and other security agencies to undertake thorough investigation and bring the culprits to book, restating that it rejects the hasty conclusion that the attack was a case of burglary. ‎The forum “calls on the police and other security agencies to undertake thorough investigation and bring the culprits to book. We reject the hasty conclusion that the attack was a case of burglary, otherwise, the so called ‘burglars’ would not have insisted on the Deputy President’s son taking them to his father’s bedroom. The careful and methodical execution of the plot points to something more sinister than burglary. “His attempted assassination, no doubt, casts a dark shadow on the state of security of lives and property in Nigeria. ‎”Apart from being a worthy son of Igboland, the Deputy Senate President has distinguished himself as a true Nigerian and a global citizen, having held the position of Speaker of ECOWAS Parliament for more than four years.” ‎The  governors used the opportunity to  express dismay over the neglect of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu and the abandoned 2nd Niger Bridge. “We want to use this opportunity to once again call on the federal government to come to the aid of the South East and deal with the infrastructural decay at Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu. “We restate that the airport is not safe as there are no runway lights, the tarmac is bumpy with potholes, while one of the buildings destroyed by storm for over two years has become an eyesore. The cargo section of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport is not functional. “It is, indeed, a shame that a whole region as economically robust as the South East does not have an airport that can land all categories of aircraft. The federal government should please come to our aid by making the airport more functional. “We are aware that the Governor of Enugu State His Excellency Rt Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has taken up the challenge of helping to fix Akanu Ibiam International Airport, but we know also that the burden is too heavy for a state government. That is why we are calling on the federal government to come to our aid. “We also want to use this opportunity to appeal to the federal government to take the issue of Second Niger Bridge seriously. The Niger Bridge is arguably the gateway to the Eastern part of this country with business hubs of Onitsha, Nnewi and Aba, amongst others. We note with concern that the Second Niger Bridge has become a political chess board in the hands of politicians seeking Igbo votes. “We have become aware that it was only in July, 2018, that the contract for the Second Niger Bridge project was signed, in spite of the fact that the first foundation laying ceremony was undertaken in 2013. We pray that this will not be another lip service to the realisation of Second Niger Bridge. “We earnestly appeal to the federal government to assist the South East Region by ensuring that the Second Niger Bridge is completed,” the forum stated.