A cross section of Imo State society yesterday rose in unison to commend the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for his courage in resolving the governorship crisis in favour of the people’s choice. They specifically described the decision to submit the name of Senator Hope Uzodinma as the party’s candidate in Imo State as a popular one which will ensure victory for the party in 2019. Chairman of Imo APC Elders Council, Dr. Edmund Onyebuchi, an Executive Member of Imo Traders Association, Comrade Charles Ewurum, President of Tricycle Association in the State, Chief Uche Okeke and a student union leader, Comrade Okechukwu Nwosu, all agreed that with the candidature of Senator Uzodimma, APC will retain the state in 2019. According to Dr. Onyebuchi, ‘for doing the right thing despite all the blackmail and intimidation from Imo State Government officials, Comrade Oshiomhole has confirmed that APC is a party that believes in justice, equity and internal democracy’. ‘Contrary to what the governor said that APC has lost five million votes, I believe that the party has gained more votes from not only Imo State but the entire South East just from this historic action from the comrade chairman’, Dr. Onyebuchi argued. He said Imo people being republican and cosmopolitan in nature found Okorocha’s attempt to foist his son in-law as a successor both repugnant and undemocratic, hence the opposition to that arrangement, adding that APC and Oshiomhole correctly read the mood of the people. Also, Comrade Ewurum  debunked the assertion that Imo people were not excited by Hope Uzodimma’s candidature, arguing that those brandying such were only trying to fool those outside the state. Said he, ‘since Friday when it was confirmed that Hope Uzodinma is the APC’s candidate, we have been jubilating, in fact we have been celebrating our freedom from our emperor, all thanks to Adams Oshiomhole”. Similarly, Chief Okeke said it was not true that Senator Uzodimma does not represent the interest of the people, noting that he was more patriotic than Governor Okorocha and those who wanted to subvert the will of the people. ‘It is insulting to call Senator Uzodinma an opportunist. Unknown to them, he is regarded as a hero in Imo State because he has saved us from the greed of political buccaneers who wanted to take Imo hostage for life’. He announced that all tricycle riders in the state have started mobilizing for Uzodimma’s victory in 2019 as well as ensure that President Muhammadu Buhari wins in the South East. On the part of the students’ leader, Comrade Nwosu, he declared that APC’s choice of Uzodimma will put to rest the perpetuation of ‘Familytocracy’ in the state. He called on Oshiomhole to resist any form of intimidation or blackmail from any quarters, stating that Uzodimma’s candidature enjoys the support of majority of Imo populace who are poised to vote APC all the way in 2019.