The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) yesterday flagged off a free medical and health care checkup for Nigerians across the country. National coordinator of the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO), Danladi Pasali, who inaugurated the scheme at their national headquarters in Abuja said the intention is to enable Nigerians across the six geopolitical zones enjoy free medical checkup. Pasali however added that the scheme which is in conjunction with Active Life and Community and Environmental Health Services, will also help to support the health care scheme of the administration. The BCO national coordinator, who noted that many Nigerians don’t know their health status due to financial incapacity would have the opportunity under this scheme. He said “the aim is part of our social responsibility to see that part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s agenda to assist the less privileged members of the society is achieved. This community project is part of Mr President’s agenda to see that we assist Nigerians at all levels. “We will go to all nooks and crannies of this country to offer free medical checkup especially for the less privileged Nigerians. “It is a very huge cost to engage in medical checkup. We know how much it’s costs to go to London, Saudi Arabia and Germany to do medical checkup but now that we have all the equipment here we are partnering with the administration to make it happen for Nigerians,” he said. He said the healthcare scheme is for all Nigerians irrespective of ethnic religious and political affiliations. He said “we are kick starting here in Abuja and North-central and then we will move to south east and south south and then we will come back to North-east and North-west.” Speaking on behalf of the Active Life and Community and Environmental Health Services, Dr Ayo Atiba, a physiotherapist and nutritionist, said the test are a comprehensive and free. While stressing that it is a new innovation, Atiba noted that the medical equipment are programmed to reveal all forms of diseases in the body. He said “we urge all Nigerians to come out and participate in the scheme. It is a comprehensive free test designed to enable Nigerians know their health status.”