A former vice chancellor of Ibrahim Badamasi Banangida University (IBBU) Lapai, Prof Ibrahim Adamu Kolo, is dead. He died yesterday in Minna at the age of 62 after a brief illness. Confirming his death, a family source told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the demise of the former university don, who has since been buried, was a painful loss to the family. The Chief Imam of Minna, Ibrahim Isah Fari, conducted the burial rites for the late Kolo yesterday at Minna Central Mosque. The burial was attended by the deputy governor of Niger State, Ahmed Mohammed Kesto; the Emir of Minna, Alhaji Umar Farouk Bahago; Head of Service, Alhaji Yabagi Sule and other top government officials in the state. The late Professor Kolo who hailed from Mokwa, Mokwa local government area of Niger State was a lecturer at faculty of Education,  Bayero University Kano (BUK)  before he became Provost of the Niger State College of Education, Minna from 2001 to 2010. He was the immediate past vice chancellor of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai, Niger State, a position he held from 2010 to 2015. He served the Niger State government in different capacities. Until his death, he was a member, implementation committee of the Niger State Teacher’s Professional Development Centre, Mararaban Dandaudu. He also served in other committees in the state and contributed actively in education-related Journals. He distinguished himself in education-related researches, both in Nigeria and abroad. Professor Kolo is survived by two wives, children and grandchildren. Niger Gov Mourns Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani-Bello, yesterday expressed sadness over what he described as the sudden demise of the late Professor Kolo, describing him as an experienced professional teacher who was committed to the efforts by the state government toward regaining the lost glory of the teaching profession in the state. The governor, in a statement signed by his chief press secretary, Malam Jibrin Baba Ndace, said the late Professor was a thorough-breed educationist who left footprints in virtually every sector of education in Nigeria. “Professor Ibrahim Kolo was a thorough-breed professional who committed his entire life to learning, teaching and research. He taught at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education rising from a classroom teacher to a professor”, he noted. The governor further described the late Kolo as a committed and passionate educationist who was one of the key drivers of the on-going reforms in education sector embarked upon by this administration. The statement noted: “The passing away of Prof. Ibrahim Kolo is a tragedy to the state, the academia and the country. He was knowledgeable, versatile, resourceful and one of Niger state’s best hands. He left at the time we needed him most in revamping the educational sector of the state. He will be greatly missed. “The Late Professor made his mark and footprints not only in the educational sector but also in the Niger state civil service and his contributions in the academia and the state will not be forgotten”. Governor Sani-Bello prayed God to grant the family and the educational sector the fortitude to bear the great loss, just as he prayed Allah to grant him aljana firdausi.