The gale of defection has engulfed Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi State as senatorial, House of Representatives aspirants and 3000 others have dumped the party and moved to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Receiving the prominent decampees, senatorial aspirant, John Ibrahim Ocheje and others at Stephen Achema Handball Stadium in Idah,  headquarters of Idah local government area, chief of staff to Governor Yahaya  Bello, Chief Edward Onoja said that wasted years are gone and APC has come to remedy the situation and offer the people a better living condition. According to Chief Onoja, “The past nineteen years of opposition rule in Kogi State,  the people in government have deprived the electorates basic social amenities like water,  electricity and other benefits that the people deserve. Such period is over and now people are feeling the impact of government,  we are looking forward to better working days.” The event had in attendance prominent APC party faithfuls who received the decampees from major opposition parties including the PDP,  SDP,  ADC, APGA and other parties all across the Eastern senatorial district of the state. He emphasised that the event was not for campaign stating that when such moment arrives, the New Direction administration  achievements in just couple of years of inception would be highlighted stressing that the party conducted free and fair primary election in the district to select capable hands in the different electoral offices, to ensure that capable persons were elected to represent the senatorial district come 2019 elections. He revealed that flag bearers of the party in the district starting from the senatorial aspirant, Jibrin Echocho and the rest at all levels, were popular personalities, whom out of political offices have calved a niche on their own within their individual capacity and  impacted the people for good and as such worthy of the people’s trust. The arrow head of the group,  a former senatorial aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Hon. Ibrahim John Ocheje in an interview with with journalists remarked that the deceitful nature of his previous party, PDP had become unbearable, hence his exist from its fold. “Politics of all inclusiveness is what is in vogue the world over now.  If might is right without recourse to the under privileged majority,  the world will be a difficult place to live,” he said. He stated that his philosophy about politics is service to the people stressing that Ibaji people has the worst road network in the World today urging the government to tackle the situation headlong. He noted that he delved into politics to help the people, thanked his supporters across the nine LGAs of Kogi East for their overwhelming support promised to do anything within his limit as a member of APC to plough back dividends of democracy to the people “During my time,  APC must be a party to reckon with to bring in more members into the APC and also work for the success of the party all across the nine local government areas of the Kogi Eastern District.”