The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Zamfara has displayed list of Governorship candidates in the state for the upcoming 2019 general elections without the names of the APC candidates. All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates’ names were missing in the list displayed at the INEC Secretariat in Gusau, yesterday. The political parties whose candidates were on the list were APGA, PDP, NRM, SDP, PRP, GPN and NCP among others. Speaking to newsmen in Gusau, the national commissioner in charge of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara, Hajiya Amina Zakari, who was in the state for official visit, said the commission had not received a list of APC candidates. “I think, it has been said several times that the APC didn’t have candidates in the state, so we have not received their candidates. “This issue is in court and if court asks us to go ahead and receive their list, we will certainly receive their names. “Therefore, since date for the submission of candidates has passed, we shouldn’t go on that now; we should concentrate on what will be beneficial to the communities which is voters’ register, claims, objections and verification,” she said. Meanwhile, the name of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State was missing on the list of names published by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday.. While that of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Emeka Ihedioha and 66 others appeared on the list, that of the APC was not on the list. It would be recalled that both Chief Uche Nwosu, who is son-in-law to the Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha and Senator Hope Uzodinma, have been in battle over who is the rightful candidate for the APC. While Okorocha has insisted on the emergence of his son-in-law as the governorship candidate for APC in the state, the national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, has recognised Senator Uzodinma as the candidate. Also, Senator Uzodinma in a statement yesterday insists he remains the APC candidate.