Kano State governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has described the $5million allegation levied against him as a political weapon designed by his perceived political opponents with the motive to dent and destroy his political career. Ganduje stated that the allegations that were contained in the online video that was published by Daily Nigeria were fashioned to achieve set out mischievous political motives against him. The governor, who was summoned to appear before the committee set up by the State House of Assembly to investigate the allegations against him said, he, Ganduje had not and would not indulge in corrupt practices. Ganduje, who was represented by Kano State Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Barrister Ibrahim Mukthar, alongside his counterpart from the state ministry of Information, Youths and Culture, Muhammad Garba, in a letter delivered by his emissaries, lamented that the video is a creation of his perceived political opponents. He queried the decision to release the video at a critical period, when the 2019 General Elections are close by. According to him, the publisher of the video, Mallam Jafar Jafar, is renown for publishing unethical news articles, he listed the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, and former Kano State governor, Mal Ibrahim Shekarau, as victims who also suffered similar fate in the hands of the publisher of the online newspaper. Ganduje urged the committee to unravel the truth behind the allegations against him. Kano State Commissioner For Justice and Attorney General, Barrister Ibrahim Mukhtar, while commenting, appealed to  media practitioners to always conduct themselves in accordance with best practices. The Chairman of the House Investigative Committee, Baffa Dan Agundi, refrained from conducting the procedural cross examination on the emissaries of the governor noting, the committee would not conduct cross examination by proxy. Hon Dan Agundi adjourned the sitting to Tuesday, 6th November 2018, noting that on the adjourned date, forensic experts would be invited to view and scrutinise the video content.