President Muhammadu Buhari has assented to five new bills, the Presidential Liaison to the National Assembly (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, has said. Enang disclosed this while briefing State House Correspondents yesterday that that the new laws are the Federal Capital Territory Appropriation Act, 2018, Nigerian Centre For Disease Control And Prevention(Establishment ) Act, 2018. Others are “Extradition (Amendment ) Act 2018, National Environmental Standard And Regulations Enforcement Agency (Establishment ) (Amendment)Act , 2018 and  Nigerian Institute Of Mining And Geosciences , Jos ( Establishment )Act , 2018. While disclosing the  import of the Federal Capital Territory Appropriation Act, 2018,he said the Act was submitted by  President Buhari to the National Assembly. He further explained that the act allows aggregate capital and recurrent expenditure of N371, 532,518,887 (three hundred and seventy one billion, five hundred and thirty two million, five hundred and eighteen thousand eight hundred and eighty seven kobo) up to the financial year ending  December 31, 2018. On the Nigeria centre for disease control and prevention, Enang said the act is aimed at promoting, coordinating and facilitating the prevention, detection and Control of Communicable diseases and other public health emergencies in Nigeria. Enang, who  stated  that  the act, submitted by the President as Executive Bill on October 17, 2017 to the National Assembly, added that it is to develop, maintain and coordinate surveillance systems to collect, analyse and interprete  data on diseases of public health importance , in order to detect public health threats, guide health intervention and set public health priorities;. Others are: “lead the response to disease outbreaks, public health emergencies and disasters in order to minimise the impact on health. “Develop and maintain a network of reference and specialized laboratories for pathogen detection, disease surveillance and outbreak response. “Develop and maintain guidelines and processes for specimen collection and transportation to reference laboratories including the World Health Organisation (WHO) standard reference laboratories in Nigeria. “Provide information to the public through multiple platforms on diseases and public health events. “Provide support and coordinate the control of national and trans-border responses to mass public health emergencies, such as mass casualties, floods, nuclear, biological and chemical terrorism, disease outbreaks and heavy metals poisoning, among others. On the Extradition (Amendment) Act, 2018, he stated that this act vests jurisdiction on extradition proceedings now on the Federal High Court and no more the Magistrates Court or Magistrates. According to him, the amendment further introduces a new section 15(2) preventing double jeopardy as protected by Section 36(9) of the Constitution which prevents a person surrendered  to Nigeria in accordance with extraction treaty. He said obligation from being arrested, detained, extradited or otherwise dealt with in Nigeria or any other country within the Commonwealth or any other country having same extraditing agreement with Nigeria . He added that if the proceedings relates to an offence for which he has been previously convicted or acquitted in the requesting country for which extradition is sought by the Nigerian authorities. On the National Environmental Standard and Regulations Enforcement Agency (Establishment) (Amendment) Act, 2018,he said the act is an amendment to the 2007 act and more succinctly defines matters of appointment to the council, empowers the agency or appropriate person to cause immediate abatement of imminent environmental pollution while appropriate warrant or court order is sought to ensure public safety, among others. On Nigerian Institute Of Mining and Geosciences, Jos (Establishment) Act, 2018, Enang added that this law establishes the institute to  provide courses of instruction , training and research in geosciences and mining and produce technicians and such skilled personnel normally required for the mining and related industries. “Provide for both the public and private sectors alike, laboratory services for rock and mineral identification, sampling and mineral beneficiation, mineral and metallurgical analysis; “Conduct research in mining, quarrying and related industries; Provide skilled training for the artisanal and small scale mining operators; among others,” he said.