Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, yesterday assured President Muhammadu Buhari of massive votes from North Central geopolitical zone in the 2019 presidential poll. Bello gave the assurance when he received the newly elected House of Representatives member for Ekiti/Isin/Oke Ero /Irepodun federal constituency of Kwara State, Hon Raheem Olawuyi. Governor Bello said all North Central APC governors are working hard to ensure landslide victory for the president in next February’s Presidential poll, assuring the electorate that they will be “protected to freely express their choice”. He stated: “Nobody will be allowed to intimidate anyone because it is the fundamental right of the electorate to make their choices. Kwarans have proved beyond doubt that despite all odds, they remain solidly behind President Muhammadu Buhari and our great party. “We now know what Kwarans want and where they want to be and we shall do everything within the ambit of the law to protect them against any form of intimidation. “Our aim is to give 95% of North Central votes to a President that has been good and fair to North Central”. The governor called on all aspirants in the North Central to preach against violence and criminality, saying popular candidates do not need violence to win elections “convincingly”. He assured that his government will ensure the people of Kogi State are well protected from “those who are beating the drums of war”, adding that the 2019 general elections will be peaceful. Bello congratulated the newly elected member, urging him to support bills and motions that will have direct impact on the people of Nigeria as encapsulated in President Buhari’s development agenda. The governor said, “Let me use this medium to congratulate you and the people of Kwara for this landmark victory that is timely and historic as a forerunner of our victory next year. “Your victory is symbolic in many ways and the jubilation that has greeted the free and fair election is a demonstration of the determination of the people of Kwara State and indeed North Central to support President Muhammadu Buhari and our great party in 2019”.