Rivers State governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, failed to vote in the local government election organised by the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RSIEC) yesterday. This is as the lawmaker representing Tai/Eleme/Oyigbo Constituency in the House of Representatives, Dr. Barry Mpigi, shunned the directives of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and voted in the local council poll. LEADERSHIP Sunday observed that Wike had arrived at his Polling Unit, Unit 7, Ward 9, Rumueprikom in Obio/Akpor local government area of the state at about 12:30pm, but instead of slowing down, his convoy drove past the venue. However, two hours after, it was reported that the governor had returned to Government House, Port Harcourt, and would not come to the polling unit again to exercise his civic responsibility. At about 10:30am when our reporter visited the RSIEC’s Registration Area Centre (RAC) for Port Harcourt City local government area, located at Saint Andrew’s State School, Diobu, Port Harcourt, materials were yet to leave for the various units and wards. However, Governor Wike has commended RSIEC and security agencies for the peaceful conduct of local government polls, saying they created the right atmosphere for credible polls. Speaking in an interview after monitoring the local government elections in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor local government areas, Wike noted that the non-participation of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the elections was one of the reasons why the process was peaceful. The governor said, “Sixty-six out of 68 political parties participated, but no violence. That means that if APC had participated, probably we would have seen violence. Sixty-six political parties, no violence, no shooting, nobody has died. But if the APC had participated, they would want to coerce security agencies; they would do all manner of negative things like bringing cultists to shoot. You can see that nobody hijacked materials. Everything has been peaceful “. Meanwhile, an APC lawmaker representing Tai/Eleme/Oyigbo Constituency in the House of Representatives, Dr. Barry Mpigi, has berated members of his party for boycotting the local government election. Speaking to newsmen after casting his vote at Unit 2, Ward 4, Koroma in Tai local government area of the state, Hon Mpigi noted that the tenure of the chairmen elected on the platform of the APC during the administration of former Governor Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi had expired. The lawmaker described the decision of the APC not to participate in the election as irrational, noting that the law did not permit vacuum. He said, “It is very unfortunate that the APC did not field any candidate for this election. We know that the tenure of the former chairmen had expired; nothing stops me from electing or participating in the election of people in the third tier of government. “I just voted here because I saw that there is nothing we can do. I am a member of the APC but I am participating in this election because there is already confusion in the APC.” Speaking with newsmen shortly after casting his vote at Unit 3, Ward 9, Omagwa, Ikwerre local government area, a chairmanship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Samuel Nwanosike, lauded the police for being neutral and providing the needed security. “We commend the police and other security agencies for their conduct. This is the first time that the governor raised alarm and the security operatives acted on it. This shows that we are now in a new era when the security agencies are out to protect lives and property. The process was peaceful. “We thank RSIEC and the governor for keeping to their promise of free and fair election. They gave all the parties and candidates equal playing field and we are indeed grateful,” he said.