Political intrigues, manoeuvrings and horse-trading will dominate today’s elective national convention of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) as about 160 candidates slug it out for 29 seats in the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) holding at the Eagle Square, Abuja. However, aspirants for 21 NWC positions do not have challengers and will, therefore, be returned unopposed. Party sources confided in LEADERSHIP Weekend that while the state governors of the party readily sacrificed former national party chairman, Chief John Oyegun, and conceded the position of chairman to the president’s choice candidate and former Edo State governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, they are, however, not keen to concede the positions of party secretary and party organising secretary, which the president is said to be interested in having certain candidates occupy. They contend that doing so would concentrate all the powers in the party in the hands of the president and such a scenario would not bode well for balance of power in the party ahead of the 2019 general election. Consequently, three aspirants will today face each other for the post of national secretary. They are the incumbent, Mai Mala Buni, formerly of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) who is believed to be favoured by the president; Waziri Bulama, formerly of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), and Abdulrahaman Terab. Of the about 160 aspirants, 17 are from the South East alone and they are contesting for the three NWC positions of national vice chairman, national organising secretary and national auditor. The aspirants for the organising secretary include the incumbent, Senator Osita Izunaso (supported by South East caucus), Emma Ibediro (backed by Governor Rochas Okorocha), Chidi Nwogu (from the Okadigbo Rainbow Coalition) and Longinus Anyanwu (from the anti-Okorocha group). For the position of national publicity secretary, the incumbent, Bolaji Abdulahi, will slug it out with two challengers, Lanre Issa Onilu and Abu Sidik Meseko. Contestants for the national women leader position are the incumbent, Ramatu Aliyu, and Salmatu Bawa, who is said to has the backing of the Kogi State governor. Meanwhile, the party seems set for its first and all-important elective convention. To forestall any unforeseen circumstances, security agencies have shut down the venue of the convention for security reasons even as all access routes to the venue have been cordoned off. Deputy national chairman (North), Senator Lawal Shuaibu, gave assurances on the party’s preparedness, saying the APC realises the importance of conducting a free and fair convention and has left no stone unturned in ensuring its success. He said, “The party is fully ready for this convention, and we have put every machinery in motion towards successful convention, to realise the objectives of the party. We did it before and we shall do it again,” he said. Shuaibu, who is himself recontesting the position of the deputy national chairman, said he was in the race again because he was convinced that he was the most qualified among those aspiring for the position. “When you have experience in politics and political party administration, you would always want to position yourself to give the best to make the party realise its objectives. “Apart from my two-term Senate tenure where I was Senate minority leader, I was a member of merger committee that gave rise to the APC. I was chairman of my party. I have since 2014 been deputy national secretary. “ I am not averse to anybody contesting with me; I believe in democracy and its norm. Inclusiveness must be encouraged,” he added. On the issue of nPDP, he said the party resolved to meet again on Monday under the leadership of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, adding that he was hopeful that the party would get the best out of the meeting.The APC, he averred, remained the best party to lead Nigeria to the Promised Land, even as he called on the people to invest more hope and trust in the governing party. … ‘Unity List’ Splits South East The excitement generated by a supposed Unity List reached another level as chairmen of the APC in the South East have advised President Muhammadu Buhari to disassociate himself from the purported list in circulation, warning that it could affect his re-election bid in the region. The state chairmen include Chief Ben Nwoye (Enugu), Eze Nwachukwu Eze (Ebonyi), Donatus Nwankpa (Abia) and Emeka Obasi (Anambra). Addressing newsmen at the APC national secretariat yesterday, four of the five state chairmen from the South East said any attempt to ignore the earlier endorsement of the outgoing national officers for re-election would not be welcome to them. Speaking on behalf of the chairmen, Chief Ben Nwoye declared that a unity list was not feasible ahead of Saturday’s convention without considering the interest of South East people in the ruling party. He said: “You cannot have a unity list when one geo-political zone is not considered; that is a misnomer. You cannot consider that to be a unity list. If you meet in a hall where you have just governors and South East has just one governor, and that one governor is the only opinion you took out of five states and you produce a list, that is not a unity list. In fact, that is a disunity list and the only way you can correct the disunity list is through a democratic list. “If that individual is popular, he should take on others instead of canvassing and waiting for former this and former that. If they produce this so-called unity list – which I tag disunity list – it will cost Mr President the election in South East; it will cause disaffection. “We are doing this, not because of us. You cannot disregard Jim Nwobodo, you can’t disregard Orji Uzor Kalu, Ogbonaya Onu, Chris Ngige, Martin Elechi, Sulivan Chime, Andy Ubah, Ugbo Orji, Benjamina Umagimoju and state chairmen. These are great leaders. “If you produce a list that affront the needs, demands and opinions of these leaders, that means we will go back to 2015 when we were unable to contribute, to vote. These are people that their own ideas, with all these entrants, we are sure to win South East for President Muhammadu Buhari. Anyone putting up a unity list that fails to be all-inclusive of our leaders is doing no good; in fact it’s doing harm to the opportunities we have already created.” He further stated that these state chairmen had worked hard to raise the stature of the party in the South East, adding that most of the people getting attention now were nowhere to be seen during the time the party was being developed in the region. “Remember every of the NEC has a vote that affects the entire country or the entire party, including the organising secretary, but it doesn’t mean that you will leave your state and go to South East and say ‘we are going to do favour to our governor’; that is what we are objecting to. “If you are not pleased with our candidate, let there be vote, let the people vote. So we are prepared, as South East with our delegates, to either take on option A with the South East, or the ballot paper, and demonstrate that these people are actually people that we want to lead us,” Nwoye said. … nPDP Members Have Nowhere To Go – Abdullahi Adamu Former Nasarawa State governor, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, yesterday said members of the nPDP bloc within the APC have nowhere else to go if they leave the APC. Abdullahi, who represents Nasarawa West senatorial district in the 8th Senate, spoke at the backdrop of the fear that members of the nPDP are likely to stage a walkout at the APC national convention today. He said the aggrieved nPDP members would never enjoy the kind of positions they are currently enjoying by virtue of their APC membership. In an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend yesterday, Senator Adamu dismissed the thought of implosion at the APC convention with a wave of hand, saying it is the wishful thinking of the party’s adversaries. According to him, in the event of any unfavourable fallout from the convention, the issue would be easily contained with the mechanisms that had been put in place by the party’s leadership. “Although it is a human endeavour, and one cannot say we can achieve 100 per cent success, I believe that, with God by our side, the convention will be successful. With what has been put in place by the convention committee, I believe we will come out smiling. “If anyone decides to walk out of the convention tomorrow, it is nothing new; it has happened before. When we had the merger, all the parties fused into one party. It is now unfortunate that some people feel that they have an identity outside the APC. “The issue of fallout is the wish of our adversaries. It is the wish of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and their likes. I don’t foresee implosion at the APC national convention tomorrow (today). I believe strongly, by the grace of Almighty Allah, we will have a successful convention. There is nothing at the convention that we are doing that is new to Nigerians,” he added. Police Deploy 5,000 Officers For APC Convention  Ahead of today’s APC national convention at Eagle Square, Abuja, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris, has deployed a total of 5000 police officers and men to ensure adequate security for all the accredited participants at the convention and at all the accreditation centres. They comprise personnel of the Police Mobile Force (PMF), the Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Protection Unit (SPU), the Explosive Ordinance Department (EOD), the Police Mounted Troops, The Dog Section (K9), the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID). Also deployed are the Police Air Wing and the Force Armament Unit under the supervision of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operations. Force spokesman, Jimoh Moshood, said: “In addition, two police helicopters and six Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) are already deployed for the security of the convention. “Personnel of other security and safety agencies are also being deployed to complement the Nigeria Police Force in ensuring adequate security and a hitch-free convention.” He also noted that only accredited delegates and accredited party officials bearing the APC clearance/identification tags would be allowed into the venue. “Personnel of all security and safety agencies deployed for the security of the convention must also wear the certified identification tag conspicuously at the venue,” he directed, adding that only one aide would be allowed to follow their principals into the venue of the convention. The police authorities also warned all unauthorised individual and groups, who have no business with the convention, to steer clear of the venue as the full weight of the law would be applied on any person or groups of persons who try to disrupt the orderliness and conduct of the convention. Meanwhile, there will be diversion of traffic from all the routes to the Eagle Square from Ahmadu Bello Way, Shehu Shagari Way and other roads leading to the venue of the convention. The diversion of traffic took effect from 10pm yesterday and will last till the end of the convention. Road users and other members of the public were advised to use alternative routes.