As Muslims all over the world celebrates Sallah that marks the end of a one month fasting of the holy Ramadan, the Kano State Gubernatorial Aspirant, under the platform of Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), Alhaji Abdulsalam Abulkareem Zaura, popularly known as A. A. Zaura has emphasized the need for patience and peaceful co-existence in the country. In a message delivered by Zaura and made available to newsmen, Alhaji Zaura advised Nigerians to avoid acts capable of upsetting the peaceful co-existence of our dear fatherland, and advised the Muslims faithful to pray strongly for Nigeria. The GPN gubernatorial aspirant A. A. Zaura said that Nigeria needs prayers from all, in order to make the country a better place to live. He urged the Muslim ummah to use the opportunity of the tranquillity and serenity they have gathered during the month’s devotional prayers to promote good things that we deserve in Nigeria. He appealed on the Kano State people to be more devotional in their prayers, so as to promote religious tolerance self-sacrifice and patriotism. He reminded the Kano people about the obligations of the holy month of Ramadan. He then congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari, the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II, and the entire Kano people on the successful completion of this year’s fasting. He prayed for a resourceful fasting by all the inhabitants of his state and the nation at large. Zaura in the message has also reiterated his pure mandates to Kano State come 2019, towards rediscovering Kano lost glories if giving chance in the forthcoming elections. According to him; “I want to congratulate all Muslim Ummah in Nigeria and the world at large for the successful completion of this year’s Ramadan. May Allah Ta’ala in his infinite mercies grant us all the blessings in the devotional period of Ramadan. I also wish to specifically congratulate the President and Commander In-Chief of the Armed forces of the federal republic of Nigeria – President Muhammadu Buhari, the Kano State Governor – Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the Emir of Kano – Muhammadu Sanusi II and the entire Kano State people to embrace peaceful-coexistence as a tool for this year’s fasting. “I want to use this opportunity to inform the Kano State inhabitants that our mandate in GPN is clear and well-articulated come next year’s elections. If giving the mandate to lead the state, we shall make sure to deliver our promises,” said A. A. Zaura.