The online platform of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group has been nominated for the Best Online Media Website category ahead of the forthcoming.ng awards slated for July 6, 2018 in Lagos. A letter signed by the chairman, Communication and Publicity sub-committee of the .ng Awards Committee, Muhammed Rudman, noted that Leadership.ng was “nominated by the general public and assessed by the Award jury as fulfilling the criteria for the category and will be competing with other nominees. The committee noted that the winner of the award, which is being handled by the Nigeria Internet Registration Association, will be determined by the number of votes received. The statement reads in part: “On behalf of .ng Awards Committee, we write to officially congratulate you and inform you of the nomination of LEADERSHIP in the ‘’Best Online Media Website’’ category for the 2018.ng Awards. “The Best Online Media Website award category recognises excellence in Journalism and other media-related activities based on the level of local and original content promoted with .ng domain name. “LEADERSHIP will be competing with other nominees and the winner will be determined by the number of votes received. As a result, we implore you to inform your clients, customers and stakeholders to acknowledge your achievements by voting for your organisation. “The voting mechanism is available online at, www.nira.org.ng/ngawards. Since the inception of .ng Awards, NiRA has ensured that the awards are based on merit. NiRA DOES NOT accept sponsorship/donations for .ng Awards”. The committee further hinted that voting was declared open on Thursday, May 10, 2018 and will close by midnight on Friday, June 22, 2018. “The .ng Web Awards Gala will hold on Friday, July 6th, 2018, at the Celebration Gardens International Hall, 28B Isaac John Street G.R.A, Ikeja, Lagos from 5:00pm. There would be a Green Carpet at 5:00pm and the awards giving ceremony starts at 6:00pm prompt. We hope you will join us to your accomplishments and those of other nominees”, the statement noted.