The United People for African Congress (UPAC) has appointed Ambassador MacDella Cooper as the Vice President for Africa. The President and CEO of the non-for-profit /political organization Dr. Sylvester Okere has announced. Okere’s historic choice for Cooper to be the ‘’Continental Vice President’’ for Africa was due to her displayed political leadership, a strong advocate for community engagement and tireless philanthropic work in Africa and the United States. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, signed by the President of UPAC Dr. Sylvester Okere, Cooper will facilitate the opportunity for Diaspora and Millennial participation on political and economic development, good governance, unity, and equal opportunity in Africa. He said: ‘’MacDella Cooper has been appointed based on her bold, tireless and tenacious hunger to bring sustainable development and world-class education across Africa’’ said Dr. Sylvester Okere, President, and CEO at UPAC-USA”. Cooper is known to many as ‘’Liberia’s Angel” , was born in Monrovia, Liberia , in 1977. Raised in a family of comfortable means, Cooper’s life changed forever with the first Liberian Civil War in 1990. Among thousands who flew the conflict that killed more than 200,000, MacDella Cooper lived as a refugee in Cote d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast) before migrating to the United States of America. She is a Philanthropist and Founder of the MacDella Cooper Foundation, an organization dedicated to improving the lives of the Children and Women in Liberia . In 2017 MacDella Cooper ran for Presidency of Liberia. As ‘’Continental Vice President’’ for Africa, MacDella Cooper will put together forums with continent leaders, business executives, non-profit organizations, and foreign missions. The United People for African Congress is the unique voice of Africans aims to use the platform to help identify, train, engage, empower and help put the right individuals into office that will promote good governance, democracy and human rights across the African Continent.