Former Ekiti State governor and governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Kayode Fayemi, yesterday escaped stray bullets fired from a police gun during the start of campaigns for the July 14 governorship election. However, four persons, including a former House of Representatives member, Hon  Opeyemi Bamidele,  were yesterday shot in the accidental shooting. Fayemi, who came from Akure with Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, his deputy and former minister of works, Prince Adedayo Adeyeye, in a long convoy of vehicles, was descending the staircase of the APC Secretariat in Ajilosun area when the incident occurred. Party supporters and admirers had accompanied Fayemi from Akure, Ondo State capital, to Ikere Ekiti and were joined by their colleagues from the 16 local government areas of the state in Ado Ekiti before things turned awry It was reported that a policeman misfired and shot Hon. Bamidele in the stomach and another person in the chest while trying to protect the dignitaries from being mobbed by those who were trying to extort money from them. Some of the supporters, it was learnt, had struggled with the policeman before he lost control, resulting in the accidental discharge. Bamidele and other victims were rushed to the hospital while one of the victims fell to the ground. It was not clear whether he died. The policeman was immediately disarmed and seriously beaten by angry party men before he was rescued and taken into safe custody. There was commotion as people fled in different directions to avoid being hit by bullets. The rally, which caused serious traffic snarl along Ado-Akure road, saw Akeredolu and Fayemi addressing party members before the commotion. Fayemi, who recently resigned his job as minister of mines and steel development,  said he had come home to rescue Ekiti from the pangs of poverty and wanton neglect caused by the incumbent  PDP administration. He said,  “We are here to work for Ekiti and our party leaders and this we are going to do together because it is a collective responsibility. “We are going to work with everybody, including those who just defected to our party, because we are one big family in APC. “We shall win by the grace of God. Our case was like the case of a ram which moved backward to garner more strength. We are here to rescue Ekiti and it is a task we must achieve.” On his part, Akeredolu praised party members for not allowing the post-primary  election crisis to cause disaffection in the party, saying with the crowd he saw showed that Ekiti remained the stronghold of the APC. “Fayemi has returned with full force to reclaim the land. He needs your support and this task shall be achieved in the mighty name of God”, he prayed. In his remarks Adeyeye said: “I have returned home and my mission is to ensure that we kill Fayose politically by burying him. We shall mobilise well to achieve this task and by the grace of God this is a must-win and must-accomplish task for all of us”, he said. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that Adeyeye recently defected to the APC after losing the PDP governorship primary to the deputy governor, Prof Kolapo Olusola, who was backed by his principal, Governor Ayo Fayose.