The Super Eagles of Nigeria has emerged as the flamboyant and snazziest off-field outfits at the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup. The 23-man Nigeria’s squad arrived in style when they landed in Mineralnye Vody dressed in immaculate white traditional Nigerian dress, complete with an embroidered green eagle. They topped up the outfit with a white hat complete with green feather. Nigeria already caused a stir with the sales of their Nike green jersey already a best seller amongst the range of replica shirts on sale this summer, with fans queuing outside stores in London to buy them. The jersey which has an eye-catching zig-zag design on the sleeves was an instant hit and fans thronged the stores to get their hands on the much-hyped colours. However, just when it was thought that Nigeria had outdone other contestants to the 2018 FIFA World Cup with their jerseys, they sent the fans in a meltdown with their travelling outfit. The John Obi Mikel-led side arrived in Russia in green and white attire that comprises of long sleeved shirt with footballs featuring just below the collar. The Super Eagles players themselves took to Twitter and uploaded photos of their arrival in Russia. Meanwhile, Alexander Nekristov, the mayor of Essentuki, the Super Eagles camp base, has officially welcomed the Nigerian team to their city ahead of the 2018 FIFA World. The Super Eagles arrived aboard a chartered flight from Austria about 11 pm on Monday at the Mirealnye Vody Airport and were chauffeured to their hotel Sanatorium Istochnik in Essentuki, which is about 35 kilometres from the airport. Nekristov, in a video posted on the official Twitter handle of the Super Eagles, said he is delighted to welcome the Nigerian team to the city. “Dear guest it is an honour for me to welcome the best footballers from Nigeria to the city of Essentuki. I am sure you have already felt the warmth of our city. We are glad to meet you. “For the FIFA Football World Cup, we are proud that your national team chose our city and our training ground and I assure you that you will not regret it.” The Super Eagles are drawn in group D alongside Croatia (who they face this Saturday), Iceland and Argentina. Nigeria are placed in Group D along with Argentina, Croatia and Iceland