An All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator representing Yobe North and Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, has likened President Muhammadu Buhari to a metaphor, myth or a phenomenon in the nation’s politics, saying the President did not contest for the number one position to make money but to transform Nigeria into a great country. Senate Leader stated this while addressing leaders of the North East Youths Coalition for President Buhari, that paid him a courtesy visit at the National Assembly complex, Abuja where he was also made the Grand Patron of the group. Senator Lawan, said Buhari contested for the Presidency four times before he won due to his drive to serve the people and improve their living conditions, and socio economic development and not for frivolity or personal ambition. “Buhari is a phenomenon, he’s a movement, and he’s not a man. What I mean here, let me not be misquoted when I said Buhari is not a man. Buhari is an attitude to life, what is that attitude, integrity, commitment”, he said. The senate leader added: “Buharism means delivery of services in transparent and accountable manner.  We are not only asking President Muhammadu Buhari to run in 2019, we want Buhari to finish in 2023 and then another Buhari should come.” He explained that people’s attitude to governance should be transparent and demonstrate accountability like the president. While accepting to be the Grand Patron of the group, he said the people of the North East are supposed to be the most grateful to President Buhari administration “because he has been accused of favouring the North East in appointments”. “We need to remind our zone that this president and his administration have done wonderfully well in so many ways. It is our duty as citizens not to allow the president to do it alone. No matter how you are, how equipped you are, when it comes to leadership and administration, especially of a country that is as complex Nigeria, you need every hand to be on deck. “I congratulate you and commend you for coming together as a coalition of youths to ensure that we go round and propagate what this administration has done for us in the North East and indeed in the country”, he said. According to him, “When the president came in 2015, the first actions he took were the actions that were necessary to rescue and secure the North East”. Earlier, the leader of the group, Engr Abdullahi Awwal said the group was formed to rally the support of the people of the North East for President Buhari in view of his achievements in the region, especially in the area of security and infrastructural development.