Barely 24 hours after the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun quit the race for the chairmanship of the party, Internal wrangling within the APC in the run-up to its national convention may have claimed another casualty with the sudden resignation of the convention committee scribe, Sen. Benjamin Uwajumogu, who cited “domestic matters” as the reason for his exit. The party has, however, moved to bridge the gap as it has also appointed the chairman of the board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba, to replace him. APC’s national publicity secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, while confirming the development, said the party hierarchy had since accepted the resignation of Sen. Uwajumogu. He, however, carpeted reports that the former secretary was forced to resign as a way of acquiescing to the demands of his state governor, Rochas Okorocha, who had threatened to dump the ruling party should his request for a new secretary be turned down. Addressing a news conference yesterday where he officially announced his resignation as the secretary, National Convention Committee, Senator Uwajumogu said he had to resign his appointment in order to attend to some family matters. Uwajumogu who is one of the APC chieftains in Imo State that have been having a running battle with Governor Okorocha over the recently conducted congresses, admitted that the governor had spent two weeks in Abuja doing everything possible to ease out, saying his resignation would clear the air on some of the accusations against him. But the party spokesman, Mallam Abdullahi, denied that the party sacrificed the convention scribe to please his state governor. He said: “It is not a trade-off. To the best of my knowledge, the reasons he gave were personal and the National Working Committee has appointed somebody else, Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba. I do not know how that can be a trade-off because, if it is so, I think his replacement should have been another person from Imo but the new appointee is from Cross River” Confirming his resignation at a news conference yesterday in Abuja, Sen. Uwajumogu said when he accepted the appointment, he had believed that the Convention would hold on May 14, but that the new date of June 23 would clash with his long term ambition to attend the graduation of two of his children from universities in England. “I want to announce to you that, yesterday, I tendered my resignation as the secretary of the APC Convention Planning Committee and the resignation was accepted last night by the national chairman of the party”, he said. “The reason why I resigned, primarily, is that when I was appointed, the date for the national convention, as we were informed, was to be on May 14. Eventually that date was moved to June 2 and there were hopes that the Convention would hold between June 2 and 9. However, the date has now been moved to June 23 and it will conflict with my family activities and responsibilities. “For example, two of my children are graduating from the university in England within this month and I have a responsibility to be there and I have some other jobs at hand too. So, I decided that since I won’t have the time for this convention, I should resign so that the position can be given to somebody who has the time. It is a decision that I took by myself. “My appointment was by the NWC and nobody has asked me to leave this position. The NWC met yesterday and there was nowhere in their meeting where I was asked to resign. It is a decision I made by myself. However, in any decision you take, there must be political consequences”. On whether he was traded off to accommodate the interests of his state governor, Rochas Okorocha with whom he has had a running battle alongside other stakeholders, Uwajumogu said, “For me, my relationship with him is not a personal thing; all of us in Imo State are opposed to the way government in Imo State is being run. “Our opposition to that is something that is based on principle; based on the fact that 95 percent of Imo citizens and indeed south easterners are not happy with what is happening in Imo State. South East citizens are ashamed that the only state where we, APC, have in the region is being run the way it is in the past three years, and for me, I did not have any choice but to detach myself from that government. “As a matter of fact, I am happy now that I have resigned, maybe it will be clear that the convention, which is slated to elect national officers, is not manipulated. I am aware that the governor is supporting some South East citizens to run for offices zoned to the region, and so now that I have resigned, nobody will accuse me of manipulating the process.” Senator Uwajumogu added that the convention was not threatened by his exit as the committee had concluded virtually all arrangements to hold the exercise despite having received only N13 million so far for its activities. He further debunked insinuations that he was squeezed out over financial malfeasance. He said he had read reports in the social media sponsored by some state elements saying he was sacked because he embezzled convention funds. He, however, said that Imo State under Okorocha was now a massive basket of fraud. “Now that I have resigned, I can only hope that my governor, Rochas Okorocha, will spend more time in Imo State attending to the various issues that he has created for himself because, in the last two weeks, he has been here in Abuja running around for the convention and trying to put only people that are favourable to his policies. “Okorocha has always threatened to leave the party if the congresses were not reversed. I hear he has threatened to leave if my position was not taken. This started more than two weeks ago and it is just a coincidence because I had made up my mind to leave. I am just hoping that now that I have left, he will return to Owerri. He has 27 hospitals he said he had built, which have been overtaken by weeds. Imo State is a massive basket of fraud and I am very sure that the EFCC has its records. “It is very clear today that this is no longer an Imo issue but a south east issue. It is very clear now that the entire south east has lost confidence in the leadership of Rochas Anayo Okorocha and all we are saying is that Nigerians should take note that we no longer have him as our leader.” Party Suspends Ekiti Campaign Over Shooting Incident The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State yesterday said it had suspended its gubernatorial campaign earlier scheduled to kick off tomorrow. The suspension came as the police command in the state released the report of Friday’s shooting incident at the APC rally organised to welcome back to the state its flagbearer in the July 14 governorship election, Dr Kayode Fayemi. LEADERSHIP SUNDAY recalls that Fayemi had escaped stray bullets fired from a police gun during the start of campaigns for the July 14 governorship election on Friday. However, there were casualties including a former House of Representatives member, Hon Opeyemi Bamidele, who was shot in the stomach. It was reported that a policeman accidentally fired his weapon while trying to protect the dignitaries from being mobbed by those who were trying to extort money from them. Some of the supporters, it was learnt, had struggled with the policeman before he lost control, resulting in the accidental discharge. Fayemi, a former governor of the state, had resigned his position as the minister of mines and steel development after winning the primary election to emerge as the party’s candidate in the oncoming election. The chairman of the party in the state, Chief Jide Awe, told newsmen in Ado Ekiti that the postponement was due to the shooting incident. According to Awe, the suspension will remain in place until the police can guarantee the safety of its gubernatorial candidate and other members of the party. He insisted that Friday’s shooting was an attempt on Fayemi’s life but that bullet instead hit a former member of the House of Representatives, Mr Opeyemi Bamidele. Awe demanded a thorough police investigation of the matter and for the report to be made public. But the police command, in its situation report released yesterday by its public relations officer, DSP Caleb Chukwuemeka, said findings revealed that what happened was a case of accidental discharge on the part of a mobile policemen. ”On Friday, 1st June, 2018, at about 1700 hours, the policeman accidentally shot Opeyemi Bamidele and one other, but he has been arrested. ”He is attached to 20 PMF, Ikeja, Lagos State, where he was posted on bank guard duties somewhere in Ikeja. The policeman came on illegal duty to Ekiti State. “A politician, who conspired and removed the said policeman from where he was posted by his Squadron Commander and brought him to Ado-Ekiti with him for an unofficial reason, has also been arrested. ”The victims of his accidental discharge are currently responding to treatment at the hospital, while the injured policeman is equally responding to treatment in protective custody,’’ he said.