A 40 year old man identified as Abiodun Idowu has strangled one of his female co-workers to death in Ogun over her persistent refusal to consent to several sex advances made to her. The suspect, a driver in one of the sachet water manufacturing companies in Sango-Ota area of Ogun state, also allegedly attempted to kill himself by taking poison having discovered that his victim had given up the ghost. The deceased, identified as Abimbola Hamzat was the Accounting Officer of the sachets water company where the suspect also works as a driver. LEADERSHIP gathered that the deceased was alone in the factory as at the period when the suspect reported for duty which gave him the much desired opportunity to attempt raping the 38 years-old Accounting Officer. The Command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi who confirmed the incident to newsmen yesterday in Abeokuta, explained that the suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged by one Owolabi Moses at the police Divisional Headquarters in Onipanu area of Sango -Ota. “Owolabi Moses reported that the suspect, who is a driver in his pure water factory has been disturbing the deceased, who was an accountant in the same factory for love affair of which the deceased has been refusing his advances,” Oyeyemi explained. The PPRO further said that the deceased struggled hard with the suspect, trying to resist the rape attempt on her, but was over-powered by the suspect who eventually strangled her to death. According to Oyeyemi, “Investigation revealed that the suspect having realized that he has committed a serious crime made efforts to kill himself by drinking hypo and izal. The DPO and his men quickly rushed him to a hospital for medical attention where he was treated and discharged before he was taken to our custody”. Oyeyemi however, said that the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu has ordered that the suspect be transferred to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for proper investigation and prosecution.