The development of any given society rests on the capacity of the younger generation, this therefore means that for any modern society to progress, the youth must be featured prominently in the scheme of things. In Nigeria’s democratic experiment, instances abound where the youth were called upon to take on leadership roles even at trying times. Shehu Shagari, became a federal legislator at the age of 30, M T Mbu became a minister at the age of 25, the late Maitama Yusuf Sule became an Oil minister at the age of 25, while General Yakubu Gowon, who fought to keep the country as a united and an indivisible entity, became a leader at a very young age. From the foregoing, it is clear that the youth have a lot to offer, both at peace time and during crisis. Various administrations have come up with different policies and programs geared towards enhancing youths’ welfare and improve their standard of living but fail to address the major issue, which is to give them the opportunity to have a say in decision making that affects them. It was from this background that, Senator Abdul’Aziz Murtala Nyako, representing Adamawa Central Senatorial Zone, took up the challenge and sponsored the Bill ‘Not Too Young To Run,’ so that the youths can be liberated, his reasons were to set the youth free from political bondage. Firstly by removing the limiting bar called ‘Age Limit’ for them to contest all political positions and get involved in governance. This is because their political destiny is with them but not in the hands of the elites. Secondly, the era of youths being worth nothing more than political subordinate, is gone with the wind. Thirdly, the Bill is geared towards opening the political space to accommodate more youth by creating awareness in their minds, for they are no longer spectators but active participants and are confident in their participation in global politics. As the bill has passed presidential assent, all attention is now shifted to the youths who have their political destiny with them, whether to really set themselves free or they will remain subservient to the elite. As for Nyako, he has broken the records of being one among first time senators that would sponsor a bill and within three years, it would see the light of day. It will therefore be good if the name of Senator Abdul ‘Aziz Murtala Nyako, who fought for their right, be written in gold in the sands of time. Alu wrote in from Abuja