The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) said its Lagos district currently conveys at least 40 containers of imports from Apapa port to some depots in and out of Lagos. Engr. Jerry Oche, Lagos District Manager (RDM) of the corporation who made this known while fielding questions from Journalists in Lagos recently said the imports are evacuated twice daily by rail from from Apapa port to deports at Ebute-Metta Junction, in Lagos state, Ijoko in Ogun state and Omiadio in Oyo state. He disclosed that the containers that are designated for the railway depots outside the ports are inspected inside the A. P. Moller Terminal  by relevant government agencies  before moving them by rail to the railway deports for onward transfer to trailers parked close to the depots. Apart from moving imports by rail he explained that exports particularly agricultural products and empty containers are carried  into the ports by rail from the aforementioned deports, he disclosed that export goods are evacuated into the ports for inspection by Nigeria Customs Service and other relevant government agencies before exportation. Oche stated further that the corporation evacuates Fertiliser imports to some parts of the country like Kaduna and Kano. Besides the evacuation of imports and exports as well as empty containers, the RDM posited the corporation of will from this month start transportation of Automobile Gasoline Oil (AGO) popularly referred to as Diesel from Lagos to Odogbolu in Osun state. He also said that discussions are ongoing with some major oil marketers like Total and Oando with a view to sealing agreements for evacuation of petroleum products by rail from Lagos to other parts of the country. According to him, one pressurized tank wagon used to convey petroleum products can contain 45 litres of fuel/diesel compared to 33 litres that can be carried by one petrol tanker on the road. Oche stated further that the 40 pressurized tank wagons in the fleet of the Corporation can convey 1.8 Litres of fuel or AGO adding that if fuel/diesel is transported by 40 pressurized tank wagons that translates to 60 road fuel tankers removed from the roads. He averred that the fear of not getting patronage expressed by some fuel tanker owners does not arise as the petroleum products still need to be transported to the petrol depots by road with fuel tankers. While Agricultural products meant for export and empty containers are carried by into Apapa port daily. According to him the imports are moved by rail from from Apapa port to deports at Ebute-Metta Junction, in Lagos state and Ijoko in Ogun state as well as Omiadio in Oyo state. He disclosed that the containers that are designated for the railway depots outside the ports are inspected inside the Apapa port terminal before transfer to the railway depots outside Apapa port for onward transfer to trailers parked close to the depots for transportation by road to their various destinations. Apart from transfer of empty containers into the ports by rail from the depots, he also disclosed that export goods especially agricultural products are evacuated into the ports for inspection by Nigeria Customs Service and other relevant government agencies before exportation. Oche disclosed that the Corporation evacuates Fertiliser imports to some parts of the country like Kaduna and Kano. Apart from evacuation of imports, and exports as well as empty containers, Lagos District of Nigerian Railway Corporation according to the RDM will from this week start transportation of Automobile Gasoline Oil (AGO) popularly referred to as Diesel from Lagos to Odogbolu in Osun state. He also said that discussions are ongoing with some major oil marketers like Total and Oando with a view to sealing agreements for evacuation of petroleum products by rail from Lagos to other parts of the country. According to him, one pressurized tank wagon used to convey petroleum products can contain 45 litres of fuel/diesel compared to 33 litres that can be carried by one petrol tanker on the road. Oche stated further that the 40 pressurized tank wagons in the fleet of the Corporation can convey 1.8 Litres of fuel or AGO adding that if fuel/diesel is transported by 40 pressurized tank wagons that translates to 60 road fuel tankers removed from the roads. He averred that the fear of not getting patronage expressed by some fuel tanker owners does not arise as the petroleum products still need to be transported to the petrol depots by road with fuel tankers.