The Omega Power Ministry (OPM) has renamed its free restaurant after Miss Leah Sharibu. Miss Sharibu is the only Dapchi girl yet to be released by the Boko Haram sect months after her abduction because she refused to renounce her Christian faith. Speaking at the event which attracted a mammoth crowd at the restaurant site, the General Overseer of the church Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere said Miss Leah Sharibu is a role model of the Christian faith who should be emulated by other Christians “At this time when adults join cults, go into prostitution, armed robbery etc all in a bid to acquire wealth and gain earthly pleasures, this young girl has shown strong faith in our Lord Almighty by refusing to renounce her Christian faith not minding the intimidation of losing her life. She is indeed a role model of the faith”. He said. Apostle Chibuzor said the renaming of the restaurant which was formerly known as the OPM free restaurant was done in solidarity with her faith and trust in God Almighty. He urged Christians to always believe in God and put their trust in Him always not minding the situation they face. The popular man of God called on the federal government to ensure that they step up efforts to release Miss Sharibu soonest so she can unite with her family. He also reiterated his promise to grant her scholarship to the highest level of education while also building a three bedroom flat for the family with money that will make the family to start any business they want. The Omega Power Ministry with headquarters in Port Harcourt Rivers State is one of the fastest growing churches in the country and the church is known for its philanthropic gestures something which the General Overseer says is the driving force behind the church. “We use church money to build and develop humanity and not to engage in frivolities. Church money belongs to the people and not to one man alone. We must be seen to be touching lives and this is why we will continue building schools, building estates, empowering people in all spheres of life and at the end of the day the society will change for the better.