Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure is prepared to play for club rivals Manchester United in order to prove Pep Guardiola wrong. Guardiola sold the Ivory Coast international while at Barcelona, and then had a major fall-out with Toure at the start of the 2017-18 season after leaving him out of City’s Champions League squad. His omission from the group was called humilating by Toure’s agent Dimitri Seluk, with Guardiola then excluding the midfielder from the team until he apologised . Toure later returned to the side, but found himself on the outside again in 2018-19 after falling down the pecking order as City won the Premier League title, playing just 10 league games all season. As a result, he confirmed he would leave the club this summer when his contract expires , having spent eight seasons at the Manchester club. However, he could remain in Manchester next season after his agent revealed Toure would be ready to play for just £1-a-week at any of the Premier League’s top six clubs, including United. Toure is wanted by clubs outside of England including Major League Soccer side New York City FC, but Seluk says that he is determined to prove Guardiola wrong and would like to stay in the Premier League and play against his former boss, having recently accused him of racism against African players . “Yaya has received many offers from different countries, big money offers, but we have decided to devote the next season to Guardiola,” Seluk told sport24 . “To proving to the Manchester City fans that Yaya is not finished with football. He is full of strength and energy and wants to play in England this season. “At a time when English clubs are spending huge sums of money on players, I officially declare that Yaya is ready to move to any top-six English club as a free agent with a salary of £1 per week. As long as a success-based bonus system is in place. “I think a player like Yaya would be good for a club like Arsenal, Chelsea, Man Utd, Tottenham or Liverpool. Yaya is a winner. “And a top player with leadership qualities could never be a bad addition to a team, especially when he doesn’t require payment.” If he moved to United, Toure would play alongside Paul Pogba, having revealed in May that he would like to play with the France international and help him improve his game for the Red Devils. “Pogba is the same size, power – but different in the way he wants to go,” Toure told the Manchester Evening News . “Technically and in the ability to score goals as well. It’s a player I want to play with, to be honest, just to teach him some things. “Pogba is a great player. He’s a fantastic player. He’s a little bit young at the moment.”