President Muhammadu Buhari has heartily congratulated the Super Eagles on their victory over Iceland in their second match at the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup yesterday.
In a statement by his special adviser on media, Femi Adesina, the president expressed particular delight at the confidence, discipline, team work and indomitable spirit displayed by the young Nigerian players. President Buhari urged the team not to limit themselves but to sustain the current winning momentum by going all out against their last group opponent, Argentina, next week.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, also hailed the Super Eagles for their victory over debutant Iceland. He said that with this win the national team had put smiles once more on the faces of Nigerians after their disappointing outing against Croatia.
“Nigerians were full of expectation of victory and did not give up on you after the initial disappointment, and you delivered! I urge you to now prove why you are called the Super Eagles in your next game against Argentina. Make us proud!” he charged the team. On its part, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday in Abuja congratulated the team on its rebound in Russia, in a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. Ologbondiyan stated that the 2-0 victory over Iceland showcased the triumph of the Nigerian resilient spirit against all odds. Ahmed Musa’s brace in the second half sealed a crucial 2-0 win for Nigeria. The victory puts Nigeria in second place, two points ahead of Iceland and Argentina ahead of the crucial final Group D game against Lionel Messi-led Argentina. Musa, who is back in the books of Leicester City in the English Premiership League after a loan spell at this former club, CSKA Moscow in Russia, found the net twice in the second half to push Nigeria into second place above Iceland and Argentina, whom Nigeria will play in the final group match with a spot in the knockout stage on the line. Musa opened the scoring on the 49th minute, controlling Victor Moses’ cross from the right and then finishing with a delightful volley. The 25-year-old doubled Nigeria’s lead with a mazy run into Iceland’s box before rounding the goalkeeper and coolly firing into the top corner. He threatened to hit a hat-trick, with the striker brimming with confidence, and very nearly did when he smashed a shot against the bar. Iceland came close to pulling one goal back, but Gylfi Sigurdsson blazed a penalty over the bar at 2-0 down. The former Kano Pillars man’s goals made him the first Nigerian to score at two FIFA World Cups, following a brace against Argentina in a 3-2 loss at the 2014 World Cup. He is now Nigeria’s World Cup top scorer with four goals in the competition. It was not all plain sailing at the outset as the Super Eagles struggled in the early stages. The Super Eagles became the first team to not have a single shot in the first half of a World Cup game since South Korea versus Algeria in 2014. But it was a different Super Eagles that emerged for the second half as they pressed Iceland back and were rewarded with Musa’s goals. Ahmed Musa is expected to pocket $100, 000 (N36 million) cash gift from Energy giant, Aiteo, as the man of the match and scorer of Nigeria’s two un-replied goals against Iceland.
LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that Aiteo had promised the Super Eagles a financial reward of $50,000 (N18 million) for every goal unanswered by their opponents. Reacting to the victory, the energy giant, expressed their happiness about Eagles deserved victory and have immediately re-echoed their promise of splashing out the sum of $50,000 to the team for every unreturned goal being scored.