A nongovernmental organization, Nigerian Youths Alliance for Good Governance (NYAGG), Thursday, commended the moves by a philanthropist, Ijeoma Wada, for being passionate about women and youth empowerment. The commendation was made by the National Coordinator, NYAGG, Austin Emavworho, while speaking on Nigerians whose interest and passion lies on empowerment of less privileged women and young people. According to him Wada has appreciably impacted with training and empowerment in the lives of women and young people from her constituency, Ikwuano-Umuahia Federal Constituency, Abia State, she hails from. He added that the women and youth in the area have become productive and have a sense of direction for their destiny as they were economically empowered to be self reliant and responsible. He said: “We in Nigerian Youths Alliance for Good Governance, NYAGG, have pledged our support for well meaning Nigerians who support and add value to the lives of women and young people, therefore making them productive and responsible, which they are empowered with various skills and given necessary starter packs to become full fledged entrepreneurs and employers of labour. “One of such personalities is Mrs Ijeoma Farida Wada, whom we have closely assessed her passion and commitment to women and youth development and empowerment for some years now. We commend her large heart of love, compassion and efforts made to add value to the lives of women and youth in her constituency,Ikwuano-Umuahia Federal Constituency, Abia State. “We have seen the positive and tremendous impact she has made with her hard earned resources. Mrs Wada is not doing all these good works because she has an ambition, rather from our findings she decided to go down the grassroots to help young men and women including children and indigent families because of her love for the people. “She has been there several times to personally interact with the people and see areas she can galvanise resources for them. She has helped parents with her resources by clearing health bills of their children and relatives, and also taking care of educational expenses.” He also urged her to continue her touch on the lives of people without any distraction or criticism, which some people would like to read opposite meanings and use derogatory words to weaken her hands not to continue what she has started doing over the years. Meanwhile, the group also acknowledged the impact of He4She Initiative in the area and South-East geopolitical zone, therefore urged them to support more indigent people to be self reliant as a way to eradicate poverty. They also called on women and young people in the area to be determined in having a new lease of life by taking advantage of such empowerment programmes, and also avoid being used by unscrupulous elements.