The immediate past Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Ekiti State, Mr Owoseeni Ajayi has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for All Progressives Congress (APC). He hinged his action on Governor Ayodele Fayose’s political intolerance and his alleged plot to autocratically govern the state for the third time Addressing newsmen, in Ado Ekiti, he accused the governor of betraying him and several other PDP stalwarts in the state despite standing by him through thick and thin. The legal practitioner alleged that the governor always imposes his dictates on the party members and supporters without given consideration to their feelings. ” Today, June 11, 2018 marked exactly one year of the sack of the entire State Executive Council of Ekiti State Government under the leadership of Governor Fayose’s on Sunday evening when I was to face the interview of Senior Advocate of Nigeria privileges committee the following Monday for the conferment of the rank of S.A.N. “When the EXCO was to be reconstituted, only myself and Hon. Deji Adesua, the commissioner for utility were left out. Our offence were that I am nursing a gubernatorial ambition while Hon. Adesua was supporting the aspiration of Prince Dayo Adeyeye for governor under PDP. Obviously the target of dissolution of the entire Cabinet was the two of us. “I saw this as the height of political intolerance of dissenting voices to the Governors’ desire to impose a “toy” on the state in order to perpetuate his third term agenda,” he said. Ajayi said the PDP has already lost the July 14 election due to what he called the untoward attitude and character of the governor. “I have tolerated him over the years. I was with him for 20 years and found myself. The odds are against PDP. “I rejected appointment from the then Governor Segun Oni because of Governor Fayose’s when I was with him in an unknown wilderness for ten years”. He said 15 members of the State House of Assembly are already in APC and he does not know those that are still loyal to him or not. “In the circumstance, as a political character with a focus for a good egalitarian society with a progressive mind where an individual does not become Lord of the Minor, I have decide from today June 11, 2018 to withdraw my membership of PDP and join APC forthwith to be able to actualize my political dream and join hand with like minds to ensure that our state does not become a Gestapo State, where an individual obsessed with power dictate to the rest of the state, where no man ascribe to himself the status ” I am the State” like emperor Napoleon Bonaparte of the dark ages”‘, he concluded.