As the June 24 snap elections called by the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) approach, KINGSLEY OPURUM examines if the political dexterity that has long allowed Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to determine the course of Turkish politics is still waxing strong or waning. After 16 years in power, Turkey’s Justice and Development Party (AKP) is facing a serious challenge from an allied opposition in the run-up to the June 24 national election. Turkish voters will head to the polls that Sunday to vote on candidates for parliament and the presidency. The election will be seen as the first up-or-down vote for the AKP’s leader and current Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, following a national referendum last April. In the referendum, voters narrowly passed a series of changes to the constitution to transform the Turkish political system from a parliamentary model to a highly centralized presidential system of governance. In the run-up to the election, Erdogan and his political ally, the far-right nationalist Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) surprised voters, after they agreed to move the date of the election up from November 2019 to June 2018. In addition, the two parties worked together to change Turkish electoral law to allow parties to run as a coalition, albeit while still allowing each parties’ logo to remain on the ballot. The coalition vote will be determined from the total number of votes cast for each party. The impetus for this change stems from a moment of political weakness when the AKP lost its parliamentary majority in June 2015, and from a prolonged failure to lower the ten percent threshold for parties to enter parliament. The AKP managed to regain its majority in November, but during those interim months, the AKP adopted a more right wing nationalist platform, intended to expand its appeal with far right voters associated with the MHP. The electoral changes, in retrospect, heralded AKP discomfort and political weakness. On the one hand, the AKP managed to win a very narrow majority for changes to the Turkish constitution, and to create a viable pathway for Erdogan to take greater control over all elements of the state. In doing so, Erdogan now has to win greater than 50 percent of the vote, or otherwise face a run-off (scheduled for July 8) with the second place finisher. The AKP has never won more than 50 percent of the vote; surpassing this margin in only three referendums. To get over the hump, the AKP and the MHP entered into a formal alliance, dubbed the People’s alliance (Cumhur Ittifaki). According to an available document, the AKP seems to assume that Turkey’s opposition parties, long feckless and ideologically divided, would fail to unite and run on a common platform. The AKP’s assumptions made sense up until now: The main opposition party, the Republican People’s Party (CHP) is infernally divided, between reformists that would like to push the party towards a more liberal platform and older party members, wedded to a nationalist narrative linked to principles Turkey’s founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The IYI Party is an MHP spin-off, whose founding in 2017 stemmed from a spilt in the MHP. The Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) is Kurdish-dominated, and linked closely to the now failed peace process. Finally, the Felicity Party (Saadet) is religiously conservative and the party that the AKP split from in the late 1990s. These four divergent parties, however, have come together and coalesced messaging around as simple message: A vote for Erdogan is a vote for autocracy; vote for democracy. The CHP, IYI, and Saadet are in a formal coalition, dubbed the National Alliance (Millet Ittifaki). Political commentators are of the opinion that the opposition has succeeded in setting the agenda, but Erdogan remains Turkey’s most popular politician and presidential candidate, and has vast resources to turn-out his base. It is believed that Turkey’s election remains up for grabs and the opposition, after 16 years, is pursuing a coherent and sound strategy to wrestle back control over one, or both, of the countries’ power centers. It is on record that Erdogan has been very active in politics since the early 1990s, when he first campaigned for election as Istanbul’s mayor. Political Friends and foes alike agree he is a skilled orator. Erdogan thrives on public speaking and rallies. For 25 years, cheering crowds have mirrored his passion and dedication. While some polls suggest he may struggle to win more than 50 percent to give him a first-round victory, President Erdogan still enjoys the largest popularity in the forthcoming lection and may dominate in a second-round run-off. It has been reported that as former Prime Minister and now President, his leadership has been marked by robust economic boom and properity that endeared him to Turkish electorate. For this vote, he is also backed by a nationalist opposition party, MHP, after the government changed laws to allow for election alliances. Meanwhile, the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) is confident that its chairman and current President Erdoğan will win the presidential election in the first round of voting by securing at least 50 percent plus one vote. “The latest polls indicate that our president’s vote is 55.6 percent,” AKP spokesperson Mahir Ünal said in a press conference following a meeting with Erdoğan and AKP deputies in the capital Ankara. Erdoğan had convened AKP lawmakers in Ankara to discuss the upcoming period for parliamentary and presidential elections to be held on June 24, over one year ahead of their originally scheduled date. Following the meeting, AKP officials came together under Erdoğan in a “harmonization commission” to accelerate the legislative harmonization process necessary to hold elections. The June 24 elections will be the first parliamentary and presidential elections under the amended constitution stipulating a shift from a parliamentary to an executive presidential system in Turkey, and existing legislation needs to be harmonized for this process. “Initially we need to confirm the process of presenting a candidate with 100,000 votes, even though there is a provision in the [amended] constitution on how the candidates can be determined. There will be a swift regulation on that,” Ünal said. He said the harmonization of the election and political parties law will be discussed with the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), in line with the alliance that the two parties have formed for the elections. “We will discuss it in the people’s alliance commission and then we will submit it to parliament,” Ünal added. Noting that the AKP’s campaigning will “probably start on May 15,” he vowed that the party is “ready for elections.”