The national leadership of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has decried the continued attacks on the party’s leadership by the Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, saying the party would not tolerate such misdemeanour. The party condemned a June 11 advertorial entitled “Let The Truth Speak For Itself,” which was signed by a known associate of Governor Okorocha, one Hon. Ireagwu Obioma, a self-styled ‘acting secretary, Imo APC’, saying the publication made a number of false claims against the party. The party’s national publicity secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, in a strongly worded statement, accused Governor Okorocha of making some wild and libellous claims against the leadership of the party. He said, “The sensible thing to do when you find yourself in a ditch is to stop digging. We, therefore, once again urge Governor Okorocha to tread the path of caution and reconciliation and to work with the duly elected party executives in the state for the good of the party. We shall however not tolerate his constant assault on the party, either directly or through proxies.” Abdullahi’s statement recalled how, in recent weeks, Okorocha has made libellous attacks on the party and its leaders a daily occurrence. “Hardly a day passes by without Okorocha verbally assaulting our national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, and other party leaders over the recently concluded congresses in Imo State. “The import of the allegations was that the party was aware of a court order preventing it from conducting the Imo State congress following receipt of a copy of the so-called court injunction which directed it to maintain status quo. But nothing can be further from the truth. Even the published documents in the advertorial do not support this position and in fact gave a lie to the governor’s version of events, that the party was duly served and prevented from going ahead with the congress in Imo State. “Also in the advertorial, a so-called internal party memo was published, which purportedly showed that we were aware of the pendency of the legal issues involving the congresses in Imo and Abia states. The published ‘memo’ by the agents of the Imo State governor is fake. No such memo was generated by our party. A casual look will reveal the inconsistency of the published document,” he said. Abdullahi remarked that, according to the published advertorial, the memo was generated by the chief of staff to the APC national chairman, Edwin Ikhinmwin but was signed by the party’s legal adviser, Dr. Muiz Banire, SAN. He, however, insisted that such an incoherent document could not have emanated from the party, or any sane organisation – for one person to generate a memo and another person sign it. “Indeed Banire, our party’s legal adviser, and the chief of staff have denounced the document as fake, stating clearly that they neither originated nor signed such memo. This is, therefore, a clear case of forgery borne out of desperation. “We are currently seeking legal advice on how to proceed with the matter to ensure that those culpable are identified and duly punished”, the party disclosed.