Max Air Airline yesterday launched domestic operation in Kano, with three Boeing 737-300 serviceable aircrafts billed to commence domestic operation soon. Speaking to newsmen at Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA, the airline’s director of Operations, Captain Ibrahim Dilli, said the aim of the domestic route was to provide excellent service to the public. According to him, the airline has employed over 300 Nigerians to serve in the operation of domestic routes, adding that over 50 cabin crew members have also been trained to handle the domestic routes. Dilli said the capacity of the Boeing 737-300 series aircraft is 128 passengers seat, including six cabin crew members to boost the domestic route. He further stated that, “You see when you provide air services as a social service; you will not only rely on people who are well-to-do or can provide international patronage. You have to, sometimes, stretch into the local market. “So, that is why we are now trying to come into the domestic service to provide service for all. “You see, the essence of our venturing into domestic service is primarily to provide transportation to the public; but secondly, it is to provide employment—as we speak now, Max Air has employed over 300 people to service the domestic market. “Our target is to be felt all over Nigeria. Like I promise two weeks ago, every state capital will feel our presence. “We have two Boeing 737—300 series on ground and more are coming. The aircrafts have the capacity of 128 passengers, with six crew members. At the moment, we have trained 50 cabin crew members to service the domestic routes. “We shall commence operation very soon, as soon as the third aircraft arrives. We are entering into the domestic market with three aircrafts, and we hope to expand up to 12 aircrafts of the same make for domestic operation. “By regulation, you can only start operating when you have three aircrafts. Now, we have three serviceable aircraft so that we will not disappoint the public in case of breakdown.  So, as soon as we bring in the third one, we will commence operation.”