The national chairman and former presidential aspirant of United Progressive Congress (UPP), Dr Chekwas Okorie, has said the 2019 elections would be a money bag election, adding that Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have every reason to fret over the 2019 general elections given the fact that the main opposition party, PDP, will give the ruling party a fight for its power and money. Chekwas, who made this known to LEADERSHIP Weekend in an exclusive interview said, “the PDP will be deploying its financial war chest, not only through deep pocket politicians within its circle, but also with funds yet to be recovered by the federal governments.” The UPP national chairman, who was reacting to a question on why the political atmosphere in the country has not been really charged with a credible aspirant to take President Buhari, who had declared interest for re-election to the stage, expressed fears over funding of election campaigns in short term, saying the cost of elective office has continued to be the major reasons most smaller political parties, even with their acceptance base, cannot grow. He confirmed that Buhari was right when he expressed fear recently, that the opposition in the country has stupendous resources at its disposal in preparation for the 2019 elections, which the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may not be able to match. ‘’It is really very unfortunate. The issue here is that elective office has become very expensive. When you have not built enough followership and you have not been able to sell your manifesto sufficiently to the electorate, it will then require far more capital than it would cost you, if you had started early to send that message within a very short time.’’ ‘’Not many people have that access. President Buhari cried out recently that the PDP has excess money and that the APC may not be able to match them naira for naira. You may take that with a pinch of salt, but the truth is that PDP has plenty of money, which they kept away,’’ said Dr Chekwas.