The newly elected chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday started his tenure on a firm note, saying party supremacy is sacrosanct on his watch. The new APC chairman, who arrived at the party secretariat at about 2:30pm to meet anxious workers and supporters, also promised that the party under his leadership was determined to hold yearly conventions. Oshiomhole did not mince words while speaking on supremacy of the party as he insisted that all elected and appointed officers of the government must toe party lines and what is obtained in its manifesto. He said, “Above all, when we talk of party supremacy, it can only be operative if there are organs of the party meeting to take decisions on a variety of policies, and when we take decisions like that, for example, in the National Executive Council (NEC) meetings and the president is seated, if the president violates or acts in contravention of a decision taken by NEC, even the President can be accused of anti-party activity – because it is a party decision; the same thing goes for the National Assembly”. He also promised that the APC, on his watch, would establish a progressive institute for policy formulation and debates. “I believe we should have – I know it is in our manifesto to establish – a Progressive Institute. We will have to work immediately to start the process of establishing that institute so that both our party leaders, our party cadres, our party members, young and old, can have opportunity – for those who are not quite clear, because for many, what is in a name? For us, the word ‘progressive’ was cautiously chosen, just like the broom was also cautiously chosen and change as a slogan was also cautiously chosen. We need to have an institute where people understand that to be progressive is to be the party for social democracy that is pro-people, pro-workers, pro-poor, popular participation, people-driven, people-oriented. We cannot have people from the extreme right, as well as those from the extreme left all inhabiting the same platform,” Oshiomhole said. Meanwhile, the new APC chairman insisted that the slogan of the party remains “Change”, saying that what was needed was for the change promised to be deepened. Oshiomhole was apparently reacting to reports that the party had changed its slogan from ‘Change’ to ‘Progress’. During the recently held national convention, one of the Master of Ceremonies had announced that the delegates should no longer chorus ‘change’ any time the name of the party was chanted, but ‘progress’ The APC chairman also stated that former President Olusegun Obasanjo must be alive to face prosecution in respect of the $16billion he claimed to have spent on power projects. He said, “As I was reflecting, I watched our president recently asking questions rhetorically, ‘you have spent $16bn on power under PDP, where is the power?’ It was like, the more dollars they spent, the more darkness the people suffered. “Now, the questions I had in my mind were, maybe because the president has not yet proceeded to now ask the follow-up questions since we cannot find the power, then, you must bring the $16bn that you spent. If he (Buhari) does not do that, then the accusations of limited anti-corruption fight may begin to gain some currency. “There are Nigerians, including Prof. Soyinka, who are asking that if people had immunity as sitting presidents, when the immunity expires, should they transit to immunity or impunity? I think impunity is deadlier than immunity. I think they want to distract attention when they are in trouble and they begin to shout, ‘oh, they want to kill me’. Since President Buhari assumed office, no political player of note has been assassinated for political reasons but the president under whose watch a minister of justice was murdered in cold blood and the minister could not get justice; then the man says ‘they want to kill me’. No! To kill is to prevent investigation. You must be alive to account. That is a typical distraction. So, I think all of us should be ready to do everything we can to help Nigerians not to forget in a hurry those who looted us for 16 years, destroyed the fabric of our growth system.” Speaking on the upcoming Ekiti governorship election, Oshiomhole said, “I am also clear that we are assuming office on the eve of an election in Ekiti State but I am very confident that all we need to do is to make sure that the instrument that was ruthlessly deployed by the then ruling party to rig us out, that rigging machine has been dismantled. “They must now go through the rigours which we had always gone through, persuading people and sermonizing to people why we are better than People Destroying People. That we will just have to do. We won’t resort to using their own tactics because we promised to be different. We will be different. But I know that old gangs cannot change their habits. “They cannot learn what they have never known – how to win votes. They have perfected how to write results, and the writing of results is no longer in vogue. So, I am very confident that Ekiti State will be won on the basis of our records in comparison with their own records and ensuring that there is free and fair election”. On the question of yearly conventions, he said, “We will create a situation where every year, we must have conventions, not in an open air like Eagle Square where people will beat drums and praise singers would have a field day. We will have conventions in convention centres which, we will chose every year and the agenda will not be elections; it is to look at our manifesto and look at our performances”. On the review of the party’s manifesto, Oshiomhole said new developments mean the party needs to adjust its projections to meet the realities of the moment.