It is my very warmest pleasure to felicitate with Muslim brothers and sisters on the occasion of Eid-el-Fitr. The occasion affords me the opportunity to extend my heartfelt and profound warm wishes to good people of Borno state and Nigeria at large. As we embark on this solemn festivity, I congratulate all of you. However, the lessons of peaceful coexistence, gratitude and benevolence, which we have been taught in the month of Ramadan must remain with us all through our lives. The virtues of Islam are grounded in love for our fellow beings and living in peace with all our neighbors. Allah (SAW) in his infinite wisdom created us differently and knows why. Therefore, we should rededicate ourselves to upholding the injunctions of the Holy Quran in our personal life and in our relationships with others. No nation has ever witnessed development in an atmosphere of rancour, acrimony, disunity and war. I therefore call on all Nigerians in general to shun all forms of rumour peddlings as it will certainly breach the prevailing peace. Have faith in the administration of president Mohammed Buhari. So far in the history of Nigeria, this is the most transparent and accountable administration. I also want to use this medium to thank president Mohammed Buhari for the historic and innovative milestone launching of the anchor borrowers scheme, under the supervision of Wal Wanne and Sons Ltd Which helps in the mobilisation of 18000 farmers in Borno State and consequently 33000 bags of paddy rice were harvested. Mr President must be commended for the passion he has shown for agriculture in the north east. We must commend him for considering agriculture as business for farmers and source of revenue generation for the country, his three years of administration has been a blessing to the North East, a lot of positive achievement has been recorded such as the continued degradation of the Boko Haram insurgency across the North and localization of their activities to the fringes of the North-east, the rescue of over 100 Chibok girls, the 104 Dapchi girls, the rehabilitation of Internally Displaced Persons have been a good reasons why the north east much appreciate President Buhari and pray for the success of his administration. This administration, without doubt, has positively moved the nation forward from the near comatose state it had met it three years ago, and with the support and prayers of all of us, Nigeria is sure to whether the storm sooner rather than later. On behalf of the national chairman and entire members of Buhari campaign organisation north east and the good people of Borno State, I want to cease this opportunity to thank President Muhammadu Buhari for the commitment he has shown to the organisation and also the developmental project north east has for achieved under his able and sincere leadership, and also a sincere gratitude goes to my State governor,HE Kashim Shettima,  the executive governor Borno State for the infrastructural, educational  and so many developmental projects  across the state. This is coming at a time when the state is trying to recover from destruction caused by insurgents. Even your foe will commend you for what is on ground in Borno State. Your legacies will forever be cherished. Also, I want to use this opportunity to call on our youths to embrace agriculture because it is a veritable means of eradicating poverty and ending food insufficiency. If you develop keen interest in it, unemployment will reduce and wealth creation enhanced. Finally, we need to cease this festive period to continue pray for peace to reign in Borno and the country at large. Once again, I felicitate with everyone seeing the end of this edifying period and say eid Mubarak to you all. Dr.  Alhaji Abiso,  CEO Wal Wanne & Sons Ltd, North East Coordinator, Buhari campaign organisation. 