About 6,800 delegates are expected to fully participate in the forthcoming elective national convention of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). This is even as efforts are being made by the party to resolve all pending issues in states where there are issues, especially those with court cases. Secretary of the convention committee, Senator Ndoma Egba, who disclosed this while speaking with journalists at the convention secretariat yesterday, gave assurance that the pending issues would be resolved one way or another to achieve a hitch-free convention. He also dismissed media reports that the convention may be shifted by one week as a result of paucity of funds, saying the convention would go ahead as planned. While dismissing reports of the likely postponement of the convention, he said, “It is not correct. The convention is going on the 23rd of June as planned. Nothing has happened to suggest the contrary. So, I can say categorically that the convention is going ahead. “We are expecting about 6,800 plus delegates. Of course, you know that we will have observers, vendors, the media, entertainers. In all you should expect about 8,000 people.” On disputes in the states resulting from ward, local and state congresses, he said, “We are hoping to resolve those issues before the convention, especially in states where we have court processes. We are working to resolve them in one way or the other. This is politics and at the end of the day, you must leave a window open for harmonisation and reconciliation.” On the outcome of the screening of the 179 aspirants for the various offices, he said, “The screening committee finished its assignment yesterday. As we speak, the screening appeals committee is sitting. After the screening, there is an appeals panel to review the cases of those who feel aggrieved with the outcome of the screening committee assignment. “You cannot known the outcome until the appeals committee finishes its work. The screening appeals committee is sitting and until that committee finishes its work, I cannot give you a number of those screened out or screened in. There is still a process going on.” On funding of the convention and activities of the committee, he said, “So far, we do not have so much of a challenge, but we are still expecting contributions from stakeholders. If there is any complain of lack of money, I think the first point of call is the secretariat and I am not aware of any committee that has come here to say we are not been funded.” Ndoma-Egba also dismissed alleged pressure on the committee from the presidency. “I am not aware of any pressure from the villa. I have never received any call or invitation from the villa. I have been allowed to do my work as best as I can. So, I am not aware of any pressure,” he said. On what to expect during the convention, he said, “We know the challenge that come with having about 8,000 people in one location and we are not taking those challenges lightly. “We have a security committee and they have been interfacing with the security agencies, reviewing the strategies of not just securing the venue, but also securing the perimeters and the entire Abuja because all these people will be coming into Abuja. “So, Abuja has to be safe and we are not leaving anything to chance. We have been interfacing at the highest level. I want to assure you that security will be topmost. We look forward to a very grand and successful national convention.”