Celebrated film maker, Tunde Kelani, is an enigma. His story is a testament that passion and hard work is the fulcrum for success in life. Humble and versatile, the founder of Mainframe Productions who clocked 70 years in February speaks with SAMUEL ABULUDE on his success story and challenges Where and when were you born? I was born on 26 February, 1948 at Ijaiye Kukudi in Abeokuta, Ogun State. That’s 70 years ago. How was growing up like? Growing up was fine and interesting. I was exposed to the culture of my forefathers early in life. I lived with my grandfather and he taught me all I needed to know about the ways and beliefs of our fathers. I used to attend the egungun masquerade festival. Which institutions/schools did you attend? I attended Oke-Ona United Primary School, Ikija in Abeokuta. For my secondary school, I attended Abeokuta Grammar School. It was at Abeokuta Grammar School that my fascination for cameras started and I was able to buy a LS3 35mm camera while there for eight pounds. That was the game changer for me as my fascination with the camera grew and that led me to film making as I was already exposed to our culture- the Yoruba culture and its beauty at a very young age. In 1976, I travelled to London to enroll in the London Film School to learn film making and cinematography. I came back to Nigeria in 1978. When did you start work? I started working with the Western Nigeria Television (WNTV) Ibadan in 1970. Before then, I had earlier worked with Dr Okubanjo & Associates after which I worked with the WNTV Ibadan which became NTA Ibadan. Also I worked as the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) cameraman in Nigeria when they wanted to work and execute productions in Nigeria. Why did you choose the profession you practised? Since I have been exposed to the beauty of my culture, early in life and have watched the early film makers and stage theatre practitioners, most of them Yoruba theatre practitioners, I wanted to project the same culture using the medium of film making. So the love for the arts and culture made me to meet and learn from many pace setters and theatre practitioners in the film industry. Was it deliberate or accidental? I grew up in the village, a place called Ijaiye Kukudi. I learnt nature and the culture of our forefathers firsthand experience living with my grandfather, the Balogun of Ijaiye-Kukudi. I attended a lot of festivals back then in Abeokuta and stage productions as the likes of Hubert Ogunde, Ade Afolayan popularly called Ade Love, the father of Kunle Afolayan, Duro Ladipo and so many others. In music I had met and got fascinated with the music of Ayinla Omowura, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti and other musicians who were known in the then Western Region. Being exposed to Nigeria’s cultural diversity fascinated me and I desired knowing more. The language and diverse culture of the Yoruba was a lifelong experience for me and huge canvas for me to explore using my medium film making. When did you get married? I got married late because my work took the whole of my time as I travelled wide and worked with playwrights, dramatist from the ivory towers, University College Ibadan now UI and University of Ife now OAU. So work was huge for me and I enjoyed and was thrilled by the opportunity to make a difference in people’s lives. It was in the process of work that I met my wife. Other details I won’t divulge because as a film maker who’s always in the public eye, my privacy and family are sacrosanct for me. And by policy, I don’t talk about my family. How was life in service? At 70, I am still in service and still making films and also positioning for the new media where technology and innovation plays a role and a whole lot in film making and productions. How is life in retirement? Film makers don’t retire. They work till they die because the work is fascinating and enjoyable. If you do what you love doing, you will keep doing it till you are hampered from it. Be that as it may, as a pioneer in the movie industry, I had a lot of roles to play and still have a role to play. The industry is still evolving and we still have a lot of role to play and much work to do to make the industry more viable than it is now. Mind you, there is no retirement benefit in the movie industry because you have to work and bring cast and crew together, coordinate the pre-production and post production stages and look for the most viable distribution network for your movies, productions and get your movies out to the audience in the best possible means. But piracy has done us much evil. It will be of note for you to know that virtually all my movies were pirated and that is a substantial amount of my money wasted and filtered away by pirates who wait for you at the point of releasing your movies to the public and they mass produce and sell the DVDs on the streets in Lagos, Kano, Ibadan and other cities. So since there is no retirement benefit in the movie industry, you keep working till you drop dead. How would you compare life during your time with what obtains now? Nigeria was a virgin during my time in the sense that we had access to nature, the rivers and I loved to swim. Where were you during the country’s independence in 1960? I was in my final year in Oke Ona United Primary School. We all had a bowl of rice on the day of independence. Have your hopes at independence been met? I believe Nigeria is evolving and good things are going to happen. What is your favourite food now and then? I don’t have a favourite food. I like to take my traditional delicacy with vegetables. What were your favourite tunes, artistes? I love Fela’s music, Ayinla Omowura, Ayinde Barrister, Orlando Julius and Ebenezer Obey. I had a relationship with them all.  Their songs were materials for me. What were your hobbies then and what are your hobbies now? My hobbies? I was in love with nature. I used to go fishing and still did a few years ago. Taking pictures of nature and panoramic views was a thing of passion for me. My work is my hobby now, film making and the arts, culture and theatre are like hobbies too. What challenges did you face while growing up, in your work life and now at retirement? We didn’t have all the money and pleasures of life growing up. Thank God, I gained scholarship after my primary education and I went to enroll in Abeokuta Grammar School. I see my challenges as opportunities to solve problems. The intrigue in filmmaking itself is a challenge that we solve every time. My first production was supposed to be the adaptation of Cyprian Ekwensi’s ‘Motherless Babies’ book and also Adebayo Faleti’s ‘Dilemma of Father Michaels’ book Any regrets? My regret is that I would have done more than I have done in my productions. Presently, Mainframe Productions has done three movies already but we cannot release it yet because of piracy. Pirates have dug deep into my pockets as virtually all my movies were pirated. When we produced ARUGBA and we were about to release into the market. We found five different versions of the movies of ARUGBA and they were all being sold. That is disheartening and discouraged me from making movies in Nigeria. Another movie MAAMI was also massively pirated. So my regrets are that we haven’t been able to address piracy for decades and with new technology, piracy takes a more interesting and frightening dimension. generation? The younger generation should be ready to learn and also imbibe innovation and technology in the new avenues of film making. The sky is not even our limit as we tell our stories using the medium of cultural diversity in film making.