GABRIEL EMMAMEH in this report takes a look at the preparation of the opposition PDP for the 2019 general elections and its search for a presidential candidate Ahead of 2019 presidential election, opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has zoned its ticket to the North. Among those in contention for the seat are a former vice president, serving and former governors and former ministers. While others may indicate interest, considering that the party has not fixed a date for its primaries, the campaign for who will get the ticket is rising. They have since swung into action seeking to win over delegates ahead of the party’s much-anticipated presidential primaries. Dankwambo Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, was born in April 1962 in Gombe City, Gombe State. He gradauted with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting and further enrolled for Masters of Science Degree, in Economics from University of Lagos. Dankwambo got a post-graduate Diploma in Computer Science from the Delta State University Abraka, Delta State and finally got a Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Phd) from Igbinedion University, Okada. Professionally, Dankwambo has been an exemplar. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers (FCIB), a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Taxation (FCIT), a Fellow of Nigerian Institute of Management (FNIM) and a Fellow of the Nigerian Economic Society (FNES). He started his career at the firm, Coopers and Lybrand International, (Chartered Accountants), now PriceWaterHouseCoopers where he was from 1985 to 1988. He later joined the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1988 and was there until 1999 when he was appointed the Accountant-General of Gombe State. He held this position until 20th April 2005 when the then Accountant General of the Federation Mr J.K Naiyeju was retiring. Again the unique qualities of Dankwambo became obvious to all, having served at various committees at the Federation Account and President Olusegun Obasanjo, who noticed his brilliance as well as efficiency appointed him the Accountant-General of the Federation, the position he held until he was overwhelmingly elected the governor of Gombe State. He was the president/Chairman of the Forum of Accountants-General and Auditors-General in West Africa (FAAGWA), and had earlier served as the Protem Secretary of the same organization, He was the co-Chairman, Standardization of Federal, State and Local Government Accounts in Nigeria, a body formed by the Federation Account Allocation Committee to harmonies the Accounting and Reporting of Financial Statements by the three tiers of government. On assumption of office as the Accountant-General of the Federation, he became the Chairman of the Technical Sub-Committee of the Federation Account Allocation Committee, a committee saddled with the responsibility of determining how the national revenues are shared equitably amongst the three tiers of Governments, that is, the Federal State and Local Governments. He discharged himself creditably and earned the respect of all. Dankwambo was also the Chairman of the Audit Committee of ECOWAS, a Board member of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Board members of the Debt Management Office. On the international scene, he was a board member, Royal Swaziland Sugar Company, Southern Africa and member of the board of Extractive Industries Transparency International. He also sat on the board of many successful companies across a wide spectrum of the nations or world economy. Dankwambos reign as the Accountant-General of the Federation brought about very laudable unique and revolutionary reforms to the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. He brought up to date the Financial Statements of the Federal Government, which were in arrears. The revolution in the Public Sector towards a cashless economy began with Alhaji Dankwambo, bringing about the implementation of the E-payment system, which was then a completely a new innovation in the financial services of the government. The Integrated Payroll Personnel Information System (IPPIS) is yet another achievement of Dankwambo. Nigerians applaud Treasury Single Account today but they must know the real hero behind it. Dankwambo, as Accountant-General of Nigeria was the one who ensured that he completed the institution of Treasury Single Account which is simply an account or set of linked accounts through which government transacts its financial operations in such a way that its financial position can be determined easily for the facilitation and timely reconciliation of cash balances. In his quest to evolve a very robust Financial Management System of the Federal Government, he worked tirelessly to install a financial Management system called the Government Integrated Financial Management System (GIFMIS). This is an ICT integrated system, which computerizes the Public Financial Management processes from budget preparation, execution, accounting and reporting. Other reforms he embarked upon included the New Chart of Accounts, the Accounting Transactions Recording and Reporting System (ATRRS), which removed the stress of having to prepare and carry hard copies of Accounts by Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation for Consolidation. The International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) gap analysis was one effort by the Alhaji Dankwambo to upgrade the preparation and reporting of Nigerias Financial Statements up to International Standards. He also embarked on the upgrading of the Federal Treasury Academy to University Standard for the training of Public Sector Accountants and affiliating it to a highly recognized Public Sector professional body in the United Kingdom, (the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) United Kingdom). In many duty posts too numerous to mention, he discharged himself creditably and won the respect as well as admiration of all. At his current duty post in Gombe, Dankwambo has been a revelation of immense proportions. As a governor, he has ben the man of his peopke. As an administrator and prudent manager of resources, he has developed Gombe into one of the best states in Nigeria in terms of material and human capital indices. Certainly, as the race for the presidency of Nigeria kicks off, Dankwambo is one man to watch. Ahmed Makarfi Ahmed Makarfi is the immediate past chairman of the National Caretaker Committee of the PDP. He is also a two-term governor of Kaduna state and a former senator. He was invited by the leaders for the PDP to head the party and restore sanity to it following the failure to elect a new leadership in Port Harcourt. Mr. Makarfi, 62, showed maturity in handling the crisis that heralded his tenure leading up to the Supreme Court. After the Supreme Court verdict that validated his position, the former Kaduna governor worked with the leaders and governors in the party to not only to put measures in place to elect new leaders, but also woo those who left to other parties, back. It is claimed in some quarters that because of the way he handled party affairs, some governors and leaders entered into an agreement him to help get their preferred candidates elected into party positions after which they will help him secure the presidential ticket. Mr. Makarfi, thereafter supervised a successful invention in which all persons listed under a controversial “Unity List” were eventually elected during the December 9 convention. The Unity list is said to be the creation of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state and some governors. Mr. Makarfi’s major strength is the fact that he trusts the PDP and the party faithful also appear to trust him. The manner he ran the PDP during the battle with Ali Modu Sheriff for the soul of the party has endeared him to many of its faithful. Also, if the reports of the agreement with governors is true, it means he has fulfilled his own part of the bargain and it is now left for the governors to fulfill theirs by ensuring he picks the presidential ticket. It is not going to be difficult for them to do that if they chose to. Mr. Makarfi does not also appear to have “excess baggage” that will be of concern to PDP faithful. He is not undergoing trial unlike Mr. Lamido and he is perceived as a corrupt person unlike Mr. Abubakar. Weaknesses: One of his major weaknesses is the feeling that Mr. Makarfi has been battling an illness which allegedly affected his performance as governor of Kaduna state. As a result, the party might be wary of fielding a candidate that will eventually face health challenges if elected. Atiku Abubakar Former Vice President Mr. Abubakar, a founding member of the PDP, had left the party on two occasions but recently retraced his steps back to where he fondly called “home.” Mr. Abubakar’s returned to the PDP in December last year from the APC where he moved to in the run up to the 2015 election. The former vice president has consistently sought to be president since he left office in 2007. He ran for president on the platform of the defunct Action Congress (AC) in that year’s presidential election but lost to the late Umaru Yar’Adua of the PDP. In 2011, he contested the PDP primaries but was defeated by former President Goodluck Jonathan. In 2014, he ran against Mr. Buhari for the APC ticket but came third behind Mr. Buhari and the then Kano State Governor, Rabi’u Kwankwaso. Mr. Abubakar will probably be running for president for the last time, hence, he is strongly motivated more than ever before to give it his all this time around. He will be 72 by November this year. It is widely speculated that Mr. Abubakar did not just return to the PDP after leaving the APC last December. The former vice president was reported to have extracted a promise from the then Ahmed Makarfi-led National Caretaker Committee that he would be given the presidential ticket if he returned to the PDP. The defunct committee was reported to have guaranteed him the nomination of the party for the presidential election before leaving the APC as he reportedly did “not want to be messed up for the third time.” Both Messrs. Abubakar and Makarfi have since denied demanding and making any commitment. Mr. Abubakar’s greatest strength lies in his political exposure having shown interest for the office of the president several times. He began showing interest for the top job since the botched Third Republic. At the time he wanted to run for president under the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP). Following closely is his wide contacts across the nation, which he might exploit to clinch the ticket. Although, some of his close associates are still in the APC, it is believed that some of them will join him in the PDP to push his candidacy. Besides, the Waziri Adamawa has the financial war chest to fund his aspiration, a key requirement in Nigerian political clime. Of all those that may join the presidential race on the PDP ticket, he appears to be the richest. Arguably, apart from government, Mr. Abubakar is one of the largest employers of labour in the country. The former VP appears to be promoting two issues in the quest to clinch the coveted ticket – youth in governance and restructuring. He has decided to make them a major plank of his campaign as they seem critical in the build up to the 2019 poll. Unlike other aspirants, party members and indeed Nigerians know the issues he is bringing to table. Analysts say any candidate that is able to convince the Nigerian youth that they will be part of his or her administration and also genuinely pursue a restructuring agenda will be a difficult candidate to beat, both at party primaries and general election. Weaknesses: Mr. Abubakar’s major weakness is his desperation to be president. Many Nigerians believe he is desperate to be president, pointing to his defections from one party to another all in a bid to be on the ballot on election day. Sule Lamido Sule Lamido was a two-term governor of Jigawa state. He is also believed to be the most performing governor in the history of the young state. Mr. Lamido belongs to the “Talakawa” political stock in the north as espoused by the late Aminu Kano. Mr. Lamido, who will be 70 years by August, is considered a “radical” in politics who, unlike Mr. Dankwambo, does not shy away from expressing his feelings on anything to anyone. He also believes that the ordinary person must be the direct beneficiary of all government policies. He is apparently very loyal to the PDP. He is one of few party leaders who has been with the party through thick and thin. As a former governor, Mr. Lamido also has widespread support across the party faithful and leaders. Closely related to this is that like Mr. Abubakar, Mr. Lamido has the political experience having been in politics for a long time. The former governor was the national secretary of the defunct SDP during the Third Republic. He could use the contacts to project his candidacy. Also, his ability to easily connect with the ordinary party member and his constant “challenge” of Mr. Buhari also will put him in good stead with delegates to the PDP primary. Mr. Lamido’s major challenge is his ongoing corruption trial by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. The PDP will be wary of fielding a candidate facing trial and have the potential of going to jail before, during or after the 2019 election. The former Jigawa governor also appears “too independent” and will be “his own man” if he becomes president. PDP leaders are known to prefer presidents they can control. Shekarau: Shekarau was born in the Kurmawa quarters of Kano, the son of a police officer. He was educated at Gidan Makama Primary School (1961–1967), then at Kano Commercial College (1967–1973) and finally at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria (1973–1977) where he received a Degree in Mathematics/Education. After finishing his Degree, he went into the civil service. Later on, he started his career as a Mathematics teacher at Government Technical College, Wudil in 1978. Two years later he became Principal at Government Day Junior Secondary School, Wudil. In 1980 he was transferred to Government Secondary School, Hadejia, then to Government College Birnin Kudu in 1986, then to Government Secondary School, Gwammaja and then to Rumfa College in March 1988, all as the school’s principal. He became Deputy Director of Education in charge of Bichi Zonal Education Area in 1992. One year later, he was promoted to Director Planning, Research and Statistics in Ministry of Education. Two year later, he became Director General (Permanent Secretary), Ministry of Education and Youth Development. In January 1995, Shekarau was transferred to Ministry of Water Resources, Rural and Community Development, then back to Ministry of Education in January – May 1997 before he was asked to moved to General Service Directorate of the Cabinet Office, all as Permanent Secretary. By February 2000, he was on the move again to Civil Service Commission, where he stayed for only four months before the civil service commission under Ado Gwaram Government sent him to the State College of Arts, Science and Remedial Studies (CASRS) as Chief lecturer (Mathematics) at the Department of Physical Sciences, in May 2000. Shekarau remained in this post for 17 months before he voluntarily retired from the services of Kano State Civil Service on 2 October 2001. Some time after quitting his post as Chief Lecturer, he decided to work as a secretary to businessman Aminu Dantata. He was employed under Dantata until he became a contender in Kano State’s 2003 gubernatorial elections. As Governor, Shekarau has opposed polio vaccination campaigns on the grounds that they are actually attempts to make Muslim women infertile. The World Health Organisation denies this.[3] He has been the driving force behind the creation of the local religious police, the “Hisbah Guard”, which enforces Sharia law. Shekarau initiated some large scale development projects in Kano State. He also hosted some world leaders like the former German Chancellor Schroeder, Prince Charles, among others. The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero conferred on him, the title of Sardauna of Kano, now of the leading emirate councillors. Tanimu Turaki Tanimu Turaki is a former Minister for Special Duties in the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr. Turaki is also the chairman of the forum of former PDP Ministers. Since moving to the PDP, Mr. Turaki has remained loyal to the PDP and chose to remain in the party at a time many persons in the north, especially his home state of Kebbi were trooping to the APC. Mr. Turaki’s major strength is that despite serving under Mr. Jonathan, he is one of the few top members of the administration that appears not to be under investigation by the country’s anti-graft agencies. As the head of the powerful Ministers forum, Mr. Turaki, 61, is also likely to enjoy support from a cross section of the PDP family. The former minister is not so well known across the nation compared to other contenders. Anyone seeking to be president in 2019 need not have to first tell most Nigerians who he is. Also, while his membership of the Jonathan loyalists in PDP is a strength, it could also be a weakness because there are many in the PDP who still hold the former president personally responsible for the defeat of the PDP in 2015. Those in this category may not be comfortable with this choice as the party’s flag bearer.