The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has vowed to improve on the Ekiti State 2014 governorship polls, despite the accolades it received for conducting the poll four years ago. The electoral body said the July 14 governorship election in the state and the 2019 general elections will be better than the previous polls conducted by the commission across the country. The State Resident Electoral Commissioner(REC), Prof Abdulganiy Raji, stated this in Ado Ekiti yesterday, during a voter education programme tagged: ‘Vote not Fight’, ‘Election No Be War’, organised by a non-governmental organisation under the aegis of New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD). He said the commission was banking on its past record to make the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state a huge success. Raji disclosed that the commission may not deploy large number of security personnel to polling booths in future elections, if the achievements recorded by the commission in conduct of elections, which global community had acknowledged to be largely transparent and credible, could be maintained. The programme was co-funded by, United Kingdom Agency for International Development (UKAID), United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Nigeria Democratic Institute (NDI). Raji, who was represented by the commission’s Public Relations Officer in Ekiti, Taiwo Gbadegesin said: “The 2015 general elections people said were largely successful, will be nothing compared to the elections that will be conducted in Ekiti and 2019. “During the June 21, 2014 governorship election in Ekiti, there was no case of ballot snatching, no killing and this had made the INEC to rank Ekiti the best in Nigeria. As we speak, Ekiti is leading on INEC records. “Let me advise Ekiti people and Nigerians to have confidence in us. They should forget the noise that the election will be rigged. No election can be rigged again in Nigeria with the kind of technology we have put in place. “INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu and our REC are distinguished academics and they have said no pressure can make them rig elections. “We appeal to our governorship candidates and particularly the youths to be good ambassadors of this state, so we can have a hitch-free election in Ekiti”, he advised. The Commissioner of Police, Ekiti Command, Mr Bello Ahmed, who was represented by Area Commander, Ado Ekiti, Mr Segun Chijioke, assured that his men will be neutral in the provision of security before and during the poll.