A total of 179 persons have indicated interest to contest for the 21 National Working Committee (NWC) positions at the forthcoming national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Katsina State governor and chairman of APC Screening Committee, Aminu Bello Masari who disclosed this also assured that the committee’s report would be submitted on Tuesday. He said the pre-qualification to be screened is to contest for positions ceded to a particular zone. “The total numbers of aspirant nationwide about is 179, though specifically I cannot immediately tell you their geographic spread”, the governor stated. On whether his committee may disqualify any aspirant, Masari said, “It is premature for me to say. I think the report will be presented by Tuesday.” On whether the party was still maintaining the zoning formula, the governor said, “You can only contest for any position zoned to your zone. So far, those who applied for positions from the Northwest are from the Northwest; nobody from the Northeast or elsewhere applied for the positions zoned to the Northwest.” Meanwhile, one of the chairmanship aspirants and former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, has expressed confidence about his solid support base across the country against three other heavyweights. The former Labour union leader has appointed one time Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon Faruk Adamu Aliyu, as his campaign director. During the official opening of his campaign office in Abuja, Oshiomhole expressed confidence that many governors, National Assembly members and other party stakeholders will support his aspiration. “In a boxing match, you do not ask a featherweight to go into the ring with a heavyweight. It is going to be a very interesting convention. I think for all of us who believe in democracy, this is to be expected”, he stated. On whether he is scared that some governors would not support him, he said, “I want to talk about my own state, that many people at various levels, including governors, Senators, past and present, and our current governor will be in my support.” Commenting on President Muhammadu Buhari’s declaration of June 12 as Democracy, Oshiomhole said, “I think we should salute the president for his statesmanship. There are many things he has done over the past three years that are outstanding in terms of finding the political will and demonstrating statesmanship. “That is his decision, which is a bold decision, to acknowledge that June 12 cannot be wished away as a non-event. I think he deserves commendation across party divides”.