The federal government yesterday debunked report by the Press Freedom Organisation Committee To Protect Journalists (CPJ) that a Nigerian journalist has been in detention for the past two years in the country. Reacting to a statement by the CPJ that the said journalist, Jones Abiri, was arrested in the course of his work, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said the person was never a journalist. Mohamed who spoke at the Gala/Award Night of the International Press Institute (IPI) in Abuja restated the commitment of the Buhari administration to press freedom. Assuring that the media has nothing to fear under the present dispensation, the minister said, “Let me state here without equivocating that contrary to the report by the Committee to Protect Journalists, no journalist is in detention in Nigeria. “Clement Abiri, who is being referred to as a journalist, is not one. He does not belong to any chapel of the Nigerian Union of Journalists. He was arrested for pipeline vandalism and crude theft, including militant activities in the Niger Delta. “In my opening comments at the 2016 IPI Congress in Doha, I said we as a government view the media as a partner. That remains true. I also said the media in Nigeria has nothing to fear from this administration and that if anything, we as a government are the ones who have to fear the media. Also, that has not changed”. Mohammed added that the federal government is proud that the Nigerian media is one of the most vibrant in the world. ‘’We are proud that the Nigerian media is one of the most vibrant in the world. We are proud of the role that the Nigerian media has played in our long march to democratic governance. This administration will continue to provide the enabling environment for the journalist to function unmolested”, he noted. Speaking on the theme of the 67th IPI World Congress, ‘Why Good Journalism Matters’, the minister said apart from alerting the government to the indispensable role of the media in the society, it reminds it of the purpose of journalism, which is to serve all citizens in a democratic society and to tell the truth. His words: “If we all agree about this obligation, then it behooves the media to tell the truth, not just to power, but to the people, making it easier for them to get the facts in the right context, thus facilitating their decision-making process. But in an era of growing cases of fake news and disinformation, can we still say the media – whether traditional or new – is living true to this dictum? “If the answer is no, what does this portend for the profession in particular and the society in general? I am sure this congress is examining the issue critically in the course of its deliberations”. Mohammed appealed to the media to always report the government in the right context in order to give the people the opportunity to make informed decisions. He said the present administration has kept its promise to fight corruption, tackle insecurity and revamp the economy. The minister said before the advent of the present administration, a territory three times the size of Lebanon in the Northeast of the country was firmly in the hands of Boko Haram. He added quickly that not an inch of the territory is currently under the control of Boko Haram. The minister thanked the IPI for granting Nigeria the hosting right for its 67th World Congress, which he described as an affirmation that Nigeria is now safe for citizens and foreigners alike.