President Muhammadu Buhari has assured members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that the party would emerge stronger from its national convention held yesterday. The president, who made the remark during the party’s national convention held at Eagle Square, Abuja, stressed that despite a few lingering issues with the congresses in some states, the party would be stronger after the convention. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that members of the new PDP, a bloc within the party, had threatened to leave the party if their grievances are not addressed. The president, while addressing delegates and party faithful at the convention ground, said: “It is my pleasure to address you today on the occasion of our great party’s second national convention and the first since we rode on its glorious platform to a victorious political outing in 2015. Congratulations again to all who worked or contributed to our success. “I want to begin by acknowledging your presence and congratulating all our delegates who have emerged from the Ward, Local Government and State congresses from the 36 states of the federation and the FCT gathered here today, as the party’s highest ranking constitutional organ, to elect and usher in a new leadership for the party at the national level. “I am also using this opportunity to thank the outgoing national executives of the party, especially those who will not be offering themselves for re-election at today’s convention, for their tireless efforts in securing victory for the party at the last elections and managing the success thereafter. “I want to assure everyone here that despite a few lingering issues with the congresses in some states, our great party will emerge stronger after this convention. “The unresolved cases we have is the price we have to pay for success, as everyone wants to be associated with a winning team. I am imploring all those with grievances to keep faith with the party until we put things right”. The president commended the convention committee chairman, Governor Badaru Abubakar, and his team for providing a level playing field and instilling confidence in both aspirants and delegates with their thorough approach and transparency. He also commended all the delegates from across the country for their sacrifice and patience in ravelling all the way from different destinations and waiting in inclement weather, as it drizzled all day. The president asserted that the adoption of consensus as a first option was commendable, stating that the process has led to a lot of healing and cohesion across the states and the zones, He further stated that where elections were inevitable, he had been assured that the process adopted will result in clear and undisputed results, even as he appealed to all contestants to keep faith with the party. “May I, therefore, appeal to all to put our great party ahead of personal considerations and to accept the outcome of the exercise in good faith. You are all important to our party’s progress and all must come together to ensure success in the forthcoming polls so as to enable us to continue the good work we have been doing for our fellow Nigerians”, he stated. Oyegun Out, Oshiomhole In Yesterday’s convention of the party saw to the exit of the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun as the party’s national chairman, as the immediate past Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole, emerged as his successor. Oshiomhole, who was the sole contestant for the office after the withdrawal of those initially eyeing the seat with him, was affirmed unopposed by delegates at the convention ground. When Oshiomhole’s name was mentioned by the chairman of the national convention committee, Governor Abubakar Badaru Mohammed of Jigawa State, the delegates chorused ‘Yes’ in affirmation. Mohammed said, “The convention procedure is to start with the affirmation of candidates that have won unopposed; thereafter, we will go state-by-state to cast the vote in the 10 centers that we have designated for voting. “The position of the national chairman is unopposed and the winner is Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Adams Oshiomhole has won unopposed so I want the congregation to affirm, have you?” The crowd responded, ‘Yes, affirmed’. In his valedictory speech at the event, outgoing national chairman of the party, Chief Oyegun said he was at peace with himself having had a fulfilling time in office. Oyegun praised people he called “the founding fathers of the party” like President Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu and Chief Tony Momoh for coming together to form the APC in a bid to rescue Nigeria. He equally paid tributes to members of the defunct new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) and a faction of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) which later joined the then newly-formed APC. “When I look to my left and right, I feel a deep sense of fulfilment. If you read the stories on the social media, you would think that the party was on the verge of implosion, that it had divisions within it that were fatal, but you look around and see one happy family”, he said. “Mr President, I thank you specially for the opportunity to work closely with you, interact and the support you gave all this while. Today is not the day to make great policy statements but to express my deepest gratitude.” Speaking of the founding fathers of the party, he said: “It is because of you that we are here. It is became of you that I look left and right and see a strong and united party. I see a vibrant party, of passionate followers who are ready to follow our president because of his principled leadership in spite of the crude abuses, insinuations and fake stories that have been hauled in his direction, which he has not allowed to dissuade him in any way or detract him from his determined course. Oyegum also thanked his colleagues at the NWC and all the state chairmen, some of whom have retained their positions and will, he said, provide the experience needed for continuity. “My colleagues of the outgoing NWC, I thank you for the fantastic cooperation I have received all these four years. Yes, our arguments were sometimes almost getting muscular but, at the end of the day, we provided the kind of leadership that has brought the party to this point today – a strong, united party. Yes, there are divergent views here and there but the essence is that the APC, at the end of the day, is a strong party, a passionate party that believes in its ideals and the vision of Mr President to give this nation the best leadership. I thank the delegates who are here today, because it was the same group that elected me four years ago and,today, they are here to perform the same function”, he added. He added that he believed that the party had found a worthy  successor to lead it going forward. “Phase one of this party is over, phase two is about to begin and it is my hope that, at the end of today, we would have elected a worthy son to carry on the battle, the leadership, the struggle of this party. “I wish my successor the very best of luck , I wish him fair weather, and for the rest, we leave to history,” he concluded. Delta, Imo Delegates In Free For All Meanwhile, some delegates at the convention ground engaged each other in a fight despite the heavy security presence. It was gathered that trouble, which initially started among delegates from Imo State, later spread to Delta State delegates. However, while the clash among delegates from Imo was brought under control by security operatives after a while, that among the Delta delegates was more intense with chairs being hurled and several people sustaining injuries.