…Don’t contest against me in 2019, president tells youths President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday signed into law, the Not-too-young-to-run Bill at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. By signing this bill into law, the president has fulfilled the pledge he made during his May 29 address to the nation to commemorate Democracy Day during which he said he would be giving assent to the bill in a matter of days. He had said in his speech on Tuesday: “In a few days to come, I will be joined by many promising young Nigerians to sign the ‘Not-too-young-to-run Bill.’ The new law, the president signed yesterday amends sections of the 1999 Constitution to reduce the age limits for eligibility for certain elective offices in Nigeria. Section 131(b) requires that a person is qualified to be president if he has attained the age of 40 years. Similarly, Section 65(a&b) stipulates the ages for the Senate and the House of Representatives as 35 and 30 years respectively. But the amendment to these sections will see the age of running for the office of the president reduced from 40 to 35 years. According to the new law, 25-year-olds can now legislate in the national and state assemblies. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that both chambers of the National Assembly passed the bill in July 2017 after which it was sent to the state assemblies for their input and concurrence.  In his remarks after signing the bill, President Buhari jocularly told the youths to wait till 2023 before contesting for the presidency. The president described the Not-too-young-to-run Bill as a landmark piece of legislation that was conceived, championed and accomplished by young Nigerians. He noted that the coordinators of the Not-too-young-to-run movement had now established a formidable legacy – which is that “in our maturing democracy, if you really want to change something in Nigeria, and if you can organise yourselves and work hard towards it, you can achieve it. “The outcome of such efforts is this remarkable feat of enshrining into law, a reduction of the minimum ages for elective offices in Nigeria.” By the new law signed by President Buhari, the eligible age for aspirants to the State Houses of Assembly is now reduced from 30 to 25 years, same for aspirants to the House of Representatives, while the eligible age for aspirants for office of the president is lowered from 40 to 35 years. However, Buhari observed that the eligibility ages for senatorial and governorship aspirants were not reduced as originally proposed by the sponsors of the Bill, saying it was an issue that may need to be addressed going forward. Buhari further pointed out that the contributions of the youths had now successfully increased the quality and maturity of Nigerian democracy and expanded the playing field for youth participation in politics. “You, the young people of Nigeria, are now set to leave your mark on the political space, just as you have done over the decades in entrepreneurship, sports, art, media entertainment, technology, and several other fields,” he said.  “You are undoubtedly Nigeria’s most important resource – not oil, not agriculture, not solid minerals – but you and all of us. Your energy, intelligence and talent are what will drive and develop Nigeria, long after we are all gone.  “This is an opportunity for me to affirm that this administration will continue to do everything in its power to make Nigeria work for you. “You may all know that the Bill I just assented now becomes an Act of the National Assembly. Thus, it may be tempting for you to think of this as the end of the journey. However, it is only the beginning; there is still a lot of work ahead, towards ensuring that young people take full advantage of the opportunities provided not only by this constitutional amendment but also through Nigeria’s boundless prospects.” The president advised young people to cultivate the culture of self-help and urged those who had completed their training not to stay idle and wait for employment but to be innovative and take up any legitimate work for self sustenance. “You may have noticed already that every one of you represents one of our 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. This is because today is about preparing for the bright future of our country. “I am confident each one of you will transform Nigeria in your own way – whether through media, agricultural enterprise, economists, engineers, or as lawmakers in your states or at federal levels, or as state governors – and even, someday, as president. Why not? But please, can I ask you to postpone your campaigns till after the 2019 elections!” He concluded by congratulating the youth for their historic achievement and urging them to continue to work towards making Nigeria a greater country. The convener of the Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth & Advancement (YIAGA), an organisation which has been in the forefront of promoting the bill, Samson Itodo, said that President Buhari had written his name in gold by signing the bill into law. “We are showing to the world that we are a country that cares for the youths; we are showing that the youths have a place in governance. Democracy has really come to stay in Nigeria. “This is a journey to rebuild our country. Young people are happy and rejoicing. We have renewed our faith in this democracy,” Itodo said. It was gathered that three state Houses of Assembly – Kano, Lagos and Zamfara – declined to endorse the bill.  As the President signed the bill into law, Itodo made three demands on behalf of the group: For political parties should reserve tickets for young people at all levels, commitment to non-violence and democratic internal party process and reduction in the cost of running for office. The signing ceremony was witnessed by a delegation of the youth, comprising representatives from the 36 states of Nigeria and the Federal capital territory, Abuja.