The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) says N147 billion June remittance to the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) was in line with the terms of agreement it had with governors on the matter. The Corporation disclosed this in a statement signed by the group general manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, yesterday in Abuja.
According to the statement, the agreement NNPC had with the governors was that the corporation would make a monthly remittance of N112 billion to FAAC subject to sufficient funds from sales of domestic crude oil allocation for the corresponding month and after meeting cash call obligations on JVs, deductions of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) cost under-recovery and pipeline maintenance. “NNPC was able to surpass the terms of agreement with the governors on the monthly remittance for the month of June by N35 billion, having taken a cue from their postures by taking from the sum meant for settling cash call obligations,” it said. The corporation expressed regrets over the governors’ additional request of N40billion, given the fact that NNPC was set to exit the cash call phenomenon. Why FAAC Ended In Deadlock – Adeosun …..says salaries to be delayed . The minister of finance, Kemi Adeosun, has given reasons for the stalemated monthly meeting of the Federation Account Allocation Committee on Wednesday. In her explanations, the minister confirmed the report by LEADERSHIP yesterday that the monthly FAAC meeting was postponed on Wednesday due to suspected under-remittance of revenue generated by the NNPC in May 2018. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that the FAAC monthly meeting is the forum where the country’s national income is shared among the federal, states and local governments. Speaking to State House correspondents at the end of the 89th meeting of the National Economic Council (NEC) presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the presidential villa, Abuja, yesterday, the finance minister said that a lot of public capital had been invested the NNPC for which returns were expected, but that the figures remitted to the federation account by the NNPC were unacceptable, which led to the stalemated meeting. As a consequence of the deadlock, she said, salaries for this month would be delayed, even as she gave assurance that the issues would be resolved soon. She said: “For the purpose of this briefing, we operate NNPC as a business; we have invested public capital in that business and we have expectations of return, and when that return falls lower than our expectations, then the owners of this business, which in this case in the federal government and states, need to act.  “So, that was what caused the deadlock yesterday and we really felt the figures the NNPC was proposing for FAAC were unacceptable. We felt that some of the costs couldn’t be justified, and so we have decided that rather than approve the accounts, we will go back and do further work, so further negotiations and interactions are going on with NNPC as we speak.” Adeosun noted that, as chairman of FAAC, she had briefed President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the state governors on the current deadlock in the matter, adding that FAAC was seeking their forbearance and support towards resolving the issues, especially as salaries in many states could be delayed as a result of the deadlocked meeting. Adeosun added: “But we feel that in order to get to the accurate figures that we need, we have asked for forbearance, and the governors and the federal government are all in agreement that we need to get to the bottom of those figures. “In particular, now that the oil price is $76 per barrel in the spot market which means that Bonny Light is about $78, we want to be aggressively putting money away into the excess crude account. So we are very, very conscious that this period, this window of relatively high oil price, might not last and we would like to be able to save. If we cannot get into the federation account the sort of revenues we are expecting, then we will not be able to save. “So, it was a very important point really underscored by all the governors and they really want action taken, and they are fully in support of the positions of the Federal Ministry of Finance and the commissioners of finance not to approve those accounts until we get further explanations on some of the costs being implemented,” she said. On the issue under-remittance by the NNPC, she said that “based on oil price, oil quantity, you can calculate what you are expecting to see in the federation account, and if the figure is less, then the right question that any stakeholder must ask is why. “So we have been going back and forth with NNPC to try and understand these figures before we can accept them. Remember that the FAAC figures have to be formally accepted by the federation account committee and we were simply not comfortable with the quantum of some of the deductions made and, therefore, we could not approve those figures.”
According to her, the FAAC meeting could be reconvened in the next few days as there are ongoing negotiations and interactions among the commissioners’ forum, ministry of finance, office of the accountant general of the federation, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and NNPC. The minister revealed that the balance in the Excess Crude Account is $1,916,742,289.60; Stabilisation Account, N18,892,864,216.65, and Natural Resources Account, N133,715,427,387.37.