President Muhammadu Buhari is planning to overhaul the nation’s security architecture with a view to restructuring it in a way that would address ongoing security challenges in parts of the country. This was part of the discussions he had with Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, at a meeting yesterday. The National Assembly leaders met with the president in his office at the presidential villa over the recent attacks in Plateau State in which scores of people were killed by suspected herdsmen. The President had on Tuesday visited Jos, the state capital, where he vowed that perpetrators of the massacre will be brought to book. Speaking to State House correspondents after the meeting, Dogara hinted that the president is planning a reorganisation of the nation’s security architecture to address the growing spate of killings in Nigeria. He however, did not disclose whether part of the reorganisation of the security structure in the country would involve replacing the service chiefs and heads of security agencies. He said Buhari briefed them on what he saw firsthand when he visited Plateau and the measures he is putting in place to ensure that there is no relapse or recurrence of the gory act. The Speaker noted that these are very sober moments for Nigerians in a situation where people in hundreds are killed, even as he said the government can no longer tolerate this kind of situation. He said, “The president has taken enough steps; these are security issues. They are not matters that you can discuss, but he has told us what he is doing – the reorganisation that he plans to put in place to ensure that this don’t happen. “My advice to our people, not just in Plateau State, Benue, Zamfara, Taraba, virtually all communities faced with this situation especially in the North, I think the issue of securing our communities, living in peace must be taken as a project. It is something each and every one of us must invest in whether as traditional rulers, as community leaders, councilors or chairmen. “All strata of society must invest in peace building. That is the only way we can live in a secure community and ensure that we progress as a country. Whatever it is, we must not lose the fight against violence because we can’t lose that fight and still keep our civilization”. Observing that in the Northeast, Boko Haram insurgents have crippled schools, hospitals and government institutions, Speaker Dogara said government does not want a replication of that scenario all over the country. On his part, Saraki disclosed that they commiserated with the president and sought to get firsthand information from him on efforts being taken to stem the tide of killings. He stated: “We met with the president to first of all commiserate with him and get a briefing from him. Part of the briefing is that he explained how steps are being taken to forestall reoccurrence and restore sanity because this is a great concern to him and to us also; to see what can be done with NEMA and security agencies. “We will all work towards it; nobody is happy with it and we will all come together to ensure that we restore sanity. We commiserate with all families. It is our own intention to also go and pay our own condolence visit to the people of Plateau”. Appealing to all Nigerians to live together in peace and harmony, Saraki assured that the government will continue to do its best to forestall any reoccurrence”. Police, Protesters Clash In Plateau Govt House Meanwhile, there was pandemonium yesterday in Plateau State Government House when what was supposed to be a peaceful protest turned violent, with about 1000 protesters forcing their way into state’s seat of power to register their grievances over the recent killings in the state. The protesters who were clad in black attire, carried placards with inscriptions such as, ‘we say no to Jihadists’, ‘Governor Lalong one tenure’, ‘we say no to genocide on the Plateau’, ‘we do not want forceful takeover of our land’, among others . Troubles started when the protesters made their way to the gate leading to Government House and were met with strong resistance from the security men who succeeded in getting the gate firmly locked to prevent them from entering the premises. Proving to be very desperate, they forced their way inside, with some of them climbing the gate, while security operatives responded by firing gunshots to scare the daring crowd. When they eventually made their way into Government House, there was no government official to address them. The protesters smashed vehicles at the car park with stones, damaging over 10 cars, including one belonging to a television journalist. The director of press in Government House, Emmanuel Nanle, later came out from his office to address them, assuring them that the state and the federal governments are on top of the situation. One of the protesters, Lydia Dung, told our correspondent that they decided to stage the peaceful protest to register their grievance over the killing of over 200 innocent people in the state. The state governor, Simon Lalong, condemned the protest, noting that it represents one of the saddest commentaries in the state’s collective resolve to stand as a people united against evil. He said the state is taken aback that, while government is making concerted efforts in sustaining the tempo of arrest and prosecution of those who have over the years threatened the peace, and worked so hard to turn the state into the sad era of bloodletting, unpatriotic elements have chosen to frustrate the good intention. In a statement signed by the director of press, Emmanuel Nanle, and made available to LEADERSHIP last night, the governor said what is more worrisome about the protest is that protesters were not willing to listen to the voice of reason in allowing the governor attend to visiting Senate President Saraki and former President Olusegun Obasanjo who were on a condolence visit to the state ahead of his addressing them. “The Governor finds it regrettable that while Government has chosen to recognize the right of its citizens to peacefully assemble and protest within the confines of the law, the conveners of the protest under the joint auspices of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Northern Zone of Plateau State, the Youth Wing of Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN), Plateau State and Bazata Gospel Team allowed the protest to be hijacked by hoodlums who took advantage of the procession led by these Organizations, to destroy Government properties and vehicles of Civil Servants and visitors to the Government House running into millions of naira”, the statement noted. Troops Parade Massacre Suspects Meanwhile, the Special Task Force on Jos crisis codenamed Operation Save Haven (OPSH) yesterday paraded three suspects in connection with the gruesome murder of over 100 persons in the state. The three suspects were paraded alongside 14 others who were arrested over civil unrest in the state. 15 villages in Barkin Ladi and Riyom local government of the state came under attack, with over 100 persons killed and properties worth billions destroyed. STF spokesman, Major Umar Adams, while parading the suspects said they were arrested with sophisticated riffles in their possession. Adams further said out of the three suspects, two are Fulani herdsmen while one is from Berom, adding that they were arrested in the course of the attacks. He said, “We all know that some days back, some villages in Barkin Ladi were attacked and these three suspects were arrested in connection with that. “As our men were repelling the attacks in those areas, we arrested these suspects with four riffles, three locally made guns and one AK47”. Umar said the suspects were still being investigated and that their confession would lead to more arrest. CAN Orders Sit-at-home Protest The chairman of Plateau State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev Isa Nenman, has directed members of the association to observe a two-day sit-at-home protest against the continuous killings in the state. In a statement issued in Jos, Nenman said the sit-at-home will be observed on Wednesday (yesterday) and Thursday (today) as a prelude to a massive protest by CAN members. He said the meeting point for the protest on Thursday will be at Old Airport Roundabout at 9:00am. The statement reads: “CAN (Christian Association of Nigeria) Plateau Northern zone has issued directives to all Christians to sit down at home today and tomorrow…No WORK, NO FARM, NO MARKET and mourn over the continuous killings… Turn out tomorrow for the massive protest to be led by all our mothers supported by the Youths”. PDP Declares 7-day Mourning Meanwhile, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has declared a seven-day mourning for the victims of the gruesome killings in Plateau State and other parts of the country. Consequently, the party directed that its flags at all its offices and formation at all levels across the country be flown at half-mast during the period in honour of the victims. PDP, in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, urged the people of Plateau State to exercise their rights as global citizens, work with other public-spirited Nigerians and groups and take President Muhammadu Buhari and his government to the International Criminal Court (ICC) at the Hague for acting helpless in the face of continuous mass killings in the country. The statement noted: “The PDP firmly holds that the life of every Nigerian is sacred. All Nigerians must be protected whether they are Birom, Basange, Igbira, Tiv, Idoma, Hausa, Igbo, Fulani, Gbagyi, Yoruba or from any other tribe whatsoever. “The fundamental duty of government all over the world is the protection of lives and Nigerians can no longer continue to fold their hands while compatriots are being daily hacked down by marauders.”