Two groups within the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Ogoni Unity Alliance (OUF) the Rivers Unity House (RUH) have began moves to reconcile the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and the senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe. Amaechi, who is the immediate past Rivers State Governor and leader of APC in the state and Abe, who is a governorship aspirant on the party’s platform, have been at loggerheads over the latter allegation of being denied the opportunity to run for the governorship race. The two groups said the essence of the move was to ensure that the APC emerges victorious in the 2019 elections, adding that peace was achievable in the process. Former Deputy Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Hon. Leyii Kwanee, who briefed newsmen in Port Harcourt yesterday, noted that the national convention of the APC has to an extent resolved the crisis in the Rivers, stressing that other process that would ensure unity in the party had already begun. Kwanee said: “The successful convention of the party is true to a large extent. The national convention has resolved the problem we have the party in the state. “There is no disagreement in the party again. There were assertions that the congress of the party held in Rivers will not have effect and that its delegate will not vote, but they proven wrong. “Those that are for us are more than those against us. The minority will have their say, but the majority will have their way. The only party executive known by the national body is the Flag-Amachree’s exco. There are so much process for peace going on now. “The Ogoni Unity Initiative is aligning itself with Rivers Unity House to ensure that the PDP Government does not come back to Government House in 2019. Under the watch of the PDP government insanity and filth have taken over the state in recent times. “What are the projects being commissioned building repainted and commissioned. A lot of companies have left the state. It is laughable. More Rivers men are unemployed. It will not be tough to get him out of the state. “To APC Democratic institutions will be allowed to do their work for a peaceful elections. It is promise by the APC government that it will not interfere in the electoral process.” Speaking to newsmen also, the Coordinator of Rivers Unity House, Bouchi Nsirim, disclosed that the forum was an advocacy group that believes in the of democracy. Nsirim stated that the move to broker between Amaechi and Abe, stating that before the 2019 election that the duo would stand on the same podium to canvass support for the party. He said, “We came together as a people to let Rivers people to know that it is time to drift from the kind of politics we know. We want to ensure that there is peace in the state. We can do politics in the state with decency and decorum. “Wike has failed to remove governance from politicking and that is the reason he is facing criticisms. Politics should only be the vehicle to get into office, thereafter governance begins. “There is no problem between Amaechi and Wine, it is politics and interest. We will make sure that we reconcile Amaechi and Abe so that there will be peace. “Before 2019 peace will return to the party, Abe and Amaechi will stand on the same podium to canvass votes for the APC. In 2019 power must rotate.”