The All Progressives Congress (APC) has setup a Peace and Reconciliation Committee for the South-east to ensure peace returns in the party in the zone, especially in Imo State. The Reconciliation Committee is headed by Senator Emmanuel Agboti from Ebonyi State, while that of Imo State is headed by Prince Macdonald Akano. The committees are expected to ensure that warring factions within the APC in the South-east are brought together while the Imo Committee would also work to achieve the same aim. Imo State governor and chairman, Progressive Governors Forum, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, disclosed the setting up of the committees before thousands of APC supporters who stormed the Government House Owerri on Wednesday to congratulate him on the success of the national convention of the party in Abuja. The governor also told his audience that there would be a Mega Victory Rally in Owerri on July 3, 2018 by APC members in the South-east. He added that the rally would be tagged South-east For Buhari, and would also be aimed at re-directing the mindset of Ndi-Igbo in the current political dispensation to join the national ideology. He said “this very rally will have so many governors in attendance with secretary to the government of the federation as a representative of the president. The idea is to promote the ideals of what President Buhari stands for, and to also ensure that Igbos are not left out again, and to rebuild all broken bridges with both the North and Western part of this Country and position Ndi-Igbo better”. The governor continued “I want to equally ensure that the new party leadership will look into the aborted Congresses in the State and I can assure you that there will be fresh Congresses as soon as possible. That will now stabilize our Party and get them ready for elections. And I want to thank Imolites who have remained calm in the face of provocations and insults. The Victory is for all of us”. . . . To Summon Lawmaker Over Imo Crisis The new leadership of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) has hinted at plans to summon the member representing Oguta constituency in the Imo State House of Assembly over his involvement in the crisis rocking the party in the state. A dependable source at the party’s headquarters disclosed to LEADERSHIP that the new executives expressed concern over what it described as protracted and irreconcilable crisis in the state chapter of the party, which is the only APC governed state in the South-east geo- political zone. Worried by the unending internal crisis in the state , the party new leadership had concluded plans to invite the lawmaker who spearheaded the endorsement of chief of staff and son in law to the governor of Imo state , Hon Uche Nwosu, which led to the factionalisation of the party by the anti Okorocha element in the party to explain the merit of his proposal. LEADERSHIP equally learnt that the vocal lawmaker is also expected to explain to the party hierarchy what made him and his colleagues believe that Nwosu is an acceptable candidate that will help the APC retain the state in the 2019 election. Our correspondent reliably gathered that the idea muted by the new exco is to resolve the warring factions ahead of the 2019 election as the Imo crisis had given the party leadership sleepless nights. Crisis began in Imo APC when one Hon. Uzoma Ezediaro representing Oguta state constituency in the state Assembly rallied his colleagues to endorse the chief of staff and son in law to Gov. Rochas Okorocha, Hon Uche Nwosu as the party’s preferred gubernatorial candidate for next year’s election which was opposed by the stakeholders led by the deputy governor Prince Eze Madumere. It will be recalled that delegates at the just concluded party’s national convention at Eagle square Abuja had engaged themselves in a free for all fight over which faction controls the party structure in the state .