The new pension scheme has recorded another feat, as about 231,000 retirees were able to withdraw N532 billion from the N8 trillion pension assets, LEADERSHIP findings have revealed. The amount withdrawn by the retirees, according to findings, is outside the N8 trillion now in the pension fund vaults, meaning that the total pension assets value is now N8.5 trillion if the N532 billion is added to the current figure. A breakdown of this figure shows that 180,783 retirees were able to access N468 billion as their pension lump sum payment under the Programmed Withdrawal option while 51,819 retirees accessed N63.9 billion through Annuity window. This shows that the aforementioned pension entitlements were withdrawn from the pension assets, in the last 10 years, under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) in the country. LEADERSHIP reports that a lump sum payment refers to a one-off payment of money which a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holder is eligible to receive upon attaining retirement age, provided that the amount left in the RSA after the lump sum withdrawal is sufficient to purchase an annuity or fund programmed withdrawals that will produce an amount which is not less than 50% of the RSA holder’s total annual remuneration at the date of his retirement. A programmed withdrawal is a method by which the employee collects his retirement benefits in periodic sums spread throughout the length of an estimated life span, while an annuity is a series of fixed payments paid at regular intervals over the specified period. An RSA holder may upon retirement, or attaining the age of 50 years, purchase an annuity from a life insurance company licensed by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) with monthly or quarterly payments. Speaking on documents required from a retiree to access either Programmed Withdrawal or Annuity Option at the point of retirement, the deputy zonal head, South West Zonal Office, Mr. Sola Adeseun, said that employees of federal government agencies  not under IPPIS but whose parent Ministries have joined IPPIS should use the names of their agencies as their employers when completing the enrolment forms. Listing other requirements, he said Date of Birth, Date of First Appointment, Gender, Terminal/Final emolument based on grade level and step as at June 2004, Mortality Table, Schedule (of the PRA 2014) for determining accrued rights and Date of Retirement, Coupon/Interest rate, are information needed to access accrued pension rights. On her part, the acting director general, PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, who was represented by the head, Benefits & Insurance Dept, PenCom,  Mrs. Ekanem Aikhomu, at a seminar in Lagos recently, added that the salient objectives of the Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014), was to make pension administration transparent and seamless, noting that the commission had established uniform set of rules, regulations and standards for all aspects of pension administration, including payment of retirement benefits to retirees. “This was achieved in the case of the latter, through issuance of the Regulation on Administration of Retirement and Terminal Benefits; Regulation on Retire Life Annuity; the Frameworks on Pension Enhancement & Programmed Withdrawals, and the Circular on Voluntary Contributions, amongst others,” she pointed out. Meanwhile, the pension funds rose from N7.779 trillion in February 2018 to N8 trillion at the end of April 2018. As at  31st December 2017, the pension funds stood at N7.52 trillion but has now grown by N500 billion in the first four months of 2018. Investigation shows that the pension assets rose by seven per cent within the first four months of the current year, making the growth one of the best since the inception of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). This increase, findings show, was attributable to new pension contributions received, interest from fixed income securities and net realised on equities and mutual fund investments. Speaking on the continuous increase in pension assets and its impact on economic development, the president,  Pension Fund Operators of Nigeria (PenOp), Mrs. Ronke Adedeji, said the nation’s economy was benefitting from this large pool of long term funds with potential to create ripple benefits on growth and development. Adedeji, who is also the managing director of Leadway Pensure PFA, while speaking on the prospects for the future of pension industry in the country, said there was going to be improved public enlightenment which would be done through the media, adding that PenCom’s plan to deepen knowledge will increasingly improve service. As a result, she said, stronger economy and stronger operators will emerge, thereby having  a ripple effect on the livelihoods of Nigerians. With a growing population and no social security system, and government unable to provide sustainable pensions, she said, employers are now compelled to provide for their employees as individuals can no longer retire impoverished.