The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba AbdulRasheed Akanbi, has described the governor of Kano State, Abdullai Ganduje, as a revolutionary governor sent by God to transform the state to a model among other states of the federation. Just returning from Kano, Oba Akanbi said what he had witnessed in the state during his brief visit, impressed him such that he could not but declare his admiration to the governor, adding that his performance is a benchmark to good governance. The Oluwo said Governor Ganduje’s passion for the less privileged aligned with his own model of leadership, especially his recent efforts towards improving the prisons in the state by drawing the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari to the condition of the inmates. Oba Akanbi said that a governor, who identifies with the plight of the hopeless, should be encouraged to do more because, according to the monarch, in the hopeless lies hope for the future if right attention is given to the deprived as Governor Ganduje is doing in Kano State. “That is why you see him being hailed wherever he goes. I am not sitting down here to know what I am saying. I was in Kano and saw it myself how people on the streets appreciate the governor. He has opened up Kano State to attract investors and foreigners. He has built hospitals among other projects that are complementing the status of the state as economic hub of the North,” he said. Similarly, the Oluwo also commended the Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, whom he also described as a true lover of his subjects and genuine advocate of new Kano wherein education would be attractive to the young ones. He also compared the Emir with himself in the area of promoting the course of the youths, whom he said hold the ace for the future of the society, urging other traditional rulers to borrow a leaf from Sanusi to liberate their subjects from the claws of poverty and ignorance. Oba Akanbi noted that a traditional ruler, who shows concern about the condition of his youths, especially on how the youths would grow to become proud citizens, is God anointed on the throne of his forefather. He added that there is no short cut to greater future unless the youths are encouraged to live meaningful lives through leadership assistance in that direction, pointing out that neglected youths would turn to be the problem of the society in the future.