Senate has ordered the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) to deport Mr Young Ho Jo, the Managing Director of SAMSUNG to South Korea, for allegedly coming into the country without valid papers. Senate chairman on ad- hoc committee probing the $16.35bn Egina Oil Field Project, Senator Solomon Adeola (APC Lagos West) gave the directive yesterday during an interactive session with major and sub-contractors of the project. According to Senator Adeola, resolution for deportation of the SAMSUNG MD was adopted by the Senate last week Thursday in line with recommendation to that effect by the ad- hoc committee in its interim report. The Senator who made the announcement to the hearing of the embattled South Korean and other operators of the Egina Oil Field Project, revealed that the illegality of Ho Jo’s residency in Nigeria came to the fore when his papers were scrutinised. “Ho Jo, who has been working for the past two months in Nigeria as the Managing Director of Samsung without fulfilling legal requirements for such, told us that he couldn’t complete his documentation as a result of alleged brake down of machines of the Nigeria Content Development Monitoring Board (NCMDB). But the NCMBD wrote to us that their machine never broke down in the period the executive claimed, showing that the man contravened the Local Content Law. Going by recommendations made by this committee to the Senate and resolutions adopted, MD SAMSUNG is no longer recognised on account of improper documentation as shown by papers he presented. “To the Senate and this committee, SAMSUNG MD is an illegal immigrant who must be deported by the Nigerian Immigration Service. To this effect, a letter has been forwarded to the ministry of interior. He can however, come back to the country after proper documentation,” he said. The committee chairman further revealed that during his illegal stay in Nigeria, Ho Jo also violated the Local Content Act by spending $1.6bn out of the $3.5bn contract SAMSUNG got from $16.35bn Egina Oil Field Project in Goje, South Korea. Responding, the Managing Director of Total Upstream Nigeria Limited, Nicolas Terraz, said that as the major operator of the project, it will continue to assist the committee in its investigations, adding that its goal is to deliver the project expected produce of 200,000 barrels of crude oil per day while its FPSO have a holding capacity of 2million barrel. Engr Gbolahan Okesanya, the representative of NNPC/NAPIMS, said it will ensure that maximum cooperation is given to the audit team of the Senate when it starts work. He adding that the goal of the audit team tallies with that of NNPC/NAPIMS in its regulation of the oil industry. Meanwhile, the second phase of the investigation would be done by consultants to be assigned by the senate for 16 weeks on the spot assessment of the project execution as regards value for money in line with the local content act.