A gubernatorial aspirant in the September Governorship race in Osun State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Albert Adeogun has explained why he withdrew from the contest for Senator Ademola Adeleke. Adeogun, who represents Ife Federal Constituency in the National Assembly said that his decision was not borne out of cowardice or intimidation from any quarter but respect for the leadership of the party both within and outside the state. Speaking at Gbongan with his teaming supporters and delegates from 30 local government councils in the state, the two terms lawmaker in the House of Representatives said that party leaders drew his attention to how the political pendulum in the state was swinging in favour of Osun West and how right thinking and loyal members should support that trend for the overall interest of the party. The aspirant who is from Ile-Ife which is Osun East said that to him, politics is not a do or die affair, adding that: “We are in politics to serve our fatherland and not to loot as being done by some self centred peopls. “We are all going to pool our resources together to ensure that we flush out the APC government which has pauperised our people in the state. Like it happened in Oyo State during the by-election, PDP is going to uproot APC in the September 22 gubernatorial election”, he said. Adeogun reminded his supporters to ensure that they preserve their voter cards and those who were yet to collect theirs to do so, adding that is the only weapon you have to reject the government of deceit”. Meanwhile, Chief Morakinyo, a former Commissioner in the state and veteran politician hascommended Adeogun for his decision stressing that the combination of Senator Adeleke and Adeogun would enhance the electoral fortune of PDP in the state. Chief Morakinyo disclosed that he has consistently been praying for the victory of the party in the state and appealed to the party members to resist the temptations of being bribed by the ruling party that might want to be in power at all costs. Representatives of Senator Adeleke who were present at the occasion declared that they have a good respect for Hon. Adeogun who they described as a selfless and well focused politician.