The national chairman of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, yesterday opened up on why he would not be seeking a second term to lead the party, saying the decision was taken in the best interest of the party. Oyegun, who also revealed that he had to take the decision after wide consultation with close political associates and family, noted that while he had always been part of solving the problem of APC, he did not intend to be part of the problem for APC to solve. The APC chairman, however, told journalists that the tenure extension that was hitherto agreed on by the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) before President Muhammadu Buhari’s insistence on elective convention, would have helped stabilise the party in the face of various crises the APC had been facing. Oyegun however admonished party leaders to close ranks and make the party a strong fighting force ahead of 2019. He said, “Now that the Convention Committee has invited interested aspirants to obtain forms to contest the various national positions in our party, it has become necessary for me to state my position. “I have consulted widely with my family, friends and associates. Even though, I had the desire to re-contest as the national chairman of the party, I have decided that it is ultimately in the best interest of the party for me to withdraw from the race. “I believe that the party faces difficult days ahead, and all critical stakeholders in its leadership would be required to bind together for a common purpose. Therefore, the less contentious our national convention is, the better for the party. I have always sought to be part of solving the problem of APC; I do not intend to be part of the problem for APC to solve. It is for this reason that I hereby declare that I will not be seeking re-election as the national chairman of the APC.” Oyegun, however, stated that he would continue to perform his duties as the national chairman of the party till his tenure officially ends on June 25, when a new set of party executives would be inaugurated. On why NEC initially rooted for the non-conduct of the Congresses and convention, Oyegun said, “With the 2019 general election looming in the horizon, some of us considered it to be in the best interest of the party to go into the elections as a united fighting force, rather than one that was potentially weakened by internal conflicts arising from competitive congresses and convention. It was for this reason that we canvassed and obtained the NEC dusk on February 27, asking all executives of the party to continue in acting capacities for another period of 12 months. “If this decision was sustained, we probably would have achieved our objective, but we would only have succeeded also in postponing the evil day as it were. In retrospect, I am inclined to agree with the viewpoint that even a young political party as ours need to be subjected to the crucible of these contestations, which in any case, is the hallmark of progressive politics. In the end, even as difficult as the situation may appear at the beginning, the experience we would draw from managing the contending interests can only hope to make our party stronger and more resilient”. He however pointed out that it was within his constitutional right to stand for re-election, having been equipped with the requisite experiences to navigate the party through political landmines. On allegations that he had been trying to frustrate Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, in the just concluded ward, local and state congresses of the party, Oyegun absolved himself,  saying the politics of Imo State is such that there are many stakeholders who are opposed to the governor within the state.