Former chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin has again been referred to the House committee on Ethics and Privileges, to explain his comments on the National Assembly joint session which held on Tuesday. This is just as the Speaker, Hon Yakubu Dogara said the joint executive session was open to all members, noting that during the session some members were sneaking in and out without canvassing any position, only to go out to misrepresent issues. Jibrin had recently resumed legislative duties following his suspension from the House for 180 legislative days.‎ The Lawmaker who represents Kiru / Bebeji federal constituency of Kano alleged ‎the leadership of the House fraudulently infused several items into the 2016 budget, in an alleged ‘budget Padding ‘ scandal. Jibrin in a statement personally signed by him, on behalf of the Parliamentary Support Group, stated that the joint session was an affair of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He also alleged that most of the concerns raised were personal issues, and that the outcome of the meeting was pre-determined. Sequel to this, the member representing Kabba / Bunnu / Ijummu federal constituency of Kogi state, Hon Sunday Karimi, raised a matter under matters of privilege at yesterday’s plenary. Karimi noted that there was need for the House to call Jibrin to order. In a related development, the Chairman, House Committee on Ethics and Privilege, Hon. Ossai Nicholas Ossai, also raised a motion under matters of privilege over comments credited to the member representing Kazaure / Roni / Gwiwa federal constituency of Jigawa state, Hon Mohammed Gudaji Kazaure, where the later alleged that some members of the House are collecting signatures impeach President Muhammadu Buhari. According to Ossai Kazuare alleged himself (Ossai) and the Chairman House Committee on Public Accounts, Hon Kingsley Chinda led the group of lawmakers collecting the signatures. The lawmaker, while calling on the House to investigate the issue, said he was prepared to step down as chairman of the Ethics and Privilege Committee, so that his deputy can preside over the case, since he cannot be a judge in his own case. Meanwhile, Chinda said there is no big deal about the allegation by Kazuare. According to him, both the impeachment of the President and making laws are the duty of the legislature. “ I dont think that this House should bother ourselves. Whether the impeachmenr of the president or making law, it is the duty of this House,” he said. The Speaker however referred the two motions to the House committee on Ethics and Privilege Committee, as he said the committee’s Chairman, Ossai can excuse himself on the case involving him, but should preside over the matter involving Jibrin.