The immediate past governor of Edo State and frontline aspirant for the national chairmanship position of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday explained why he was enjoying the support of governors and other party leaders across the nation ahead the June 23 national convention of the party. Oshiomhole said the majority of the leaders of the party were behind his aspiration because “they understand my person and because, by the special Grace of God, I will emerge through a consensus leadership, (and) my loyalty will be to the party and no more”. Speaking with journalists in Benin, the Edo State capital, Oshiomhole, who said he would exercise his “persuasive powers and negotiating skills” in resolving the crisis in the party,  explained that prominent leaders of the party were backing him because they believed that he would improve the fortunes of the party. He said: “If I have prominent people from the North, prominent people from the South, East and West it means I will be at the centre; no one will say ‘if not for my support you would not have been there’. “If you are a product of one section, then you might remain detained by that section, but when you have the privilege of a broad support from many leaders then no one leader will say ‘I put you there, you must listen to me’. “But let me also say that what is also qualitatively different about this support is that there is no question about what is influencing this support because, conventionally, in our political environment, we hear that those who have the deepest pocket tend to buy the support, but this support is being offered from people who cannot be procured, which tells you it is flowing from the knowledge of my person. “I have been fortunate to work with all the governors, including past governors. Those I did not meet in office, I met them when I was president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). We had engaged on one-to-one and they know what I stand for. So, they offered this support based on their understanding of my person and not inducement, and that makes a difference”. He added that he was never a dictator as being alleged in some quarters, explaining that some of the tactics he employed in the labour union were those of negotiation and not dictatorship. “Even though I was the president of the NLC, I could not even control my deputy because he was voted for the same manner I was elected. In the NLC, you must listen to everybody unlike in government where, as an executive, you can dictate decisions. “So, what my background prepared me for is to be able to listen and that is why in everything I kept saying that contestation (and) disputes are not dysfunctional if you have the skills; that I have to manage divergences. I have never exercised dictatorial powers; I have always exercised persuasive powers, negotiating skills and those are my skills. And when I negotiate with you and persuade and you accept, you will feel obliged to do what you have to do. “But if I dictate to you, when I am not watching, you will do your heart. So, I am not capable of being a dictator by the very nature of my background,” he stated.