There were indications yesterday that the internal crisis rocking the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) may be far from being resolved as the leadership of the defunct new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) suspended talks with the presidency. The power bloc within the APC said it has stopped all forms of dialogue with the leadership of the party, citing alleged victimisation of its members, including Senate President Bukola Saraki and Kwara State governor, Abdulfatai Ahmed, as part of the reasons for its decision. In a statement issued by its leader, Abubakar Kawu Baraje, the nPDP decried the continued victimisation of its members by security agencies, saying it has continued unabated. Decrying the travails of Saraki and Governor Ahmed who are both members of the group, Baraje said the nPDP leadership has decided to brief its members “on the unfortunate development and get a fresh mandate if good faith returns to the discussions.” The statement reads in part: “The persecution of our members using state security apparatus have continued unabated. We recognise the powers of the Police to conduct criminal investigations but by rushing to the public with the issue even when they have unfettered access to the leadership of the National Assembly suggests an attempt to undermine, caricature and humiliate the institution of the legislature. “It appears that there is a fouled and toxic atmosphere and environment of intimidation and threat to life in which we now find ourselves which may no longer be conducive for members of the former nPDP to continue with the talks. “Given the unfolding events in the last 24 hours, where the President of the Senate, His Excellency, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki and His Excellency, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, the Executive Governor of Kwara State, both of whom attended the meeting with the Vice President on Monday 28 May, 2018, have suddenly been accused of sponsoring armed robbery by the Police under the directives of the Presidency”. Baraje recalled that a team from the former nPDP led by Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and four others, were to meet with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday. Accusing the presidency of indifference towards the dialogue between the nPDP and the leadership of the party, he said,  “However, while we are truly and earnestly committed to achieving reconciliation, harmony, truce and cohesion in the APC as we approach the 2019 general elections, it appears that the Presidency is not interested in the talks and that they may have been negotiating in bad faith. “We were alarmed that immediately after our meeting with the Vice President last week, the presidency misrepresented what transpired at the meeting by trying to blackmail some of the principal actors involved in the discussions in a national daily. “Similarly, the leadership of the party (APC) went ahead to ratify all the Congresses from ward, local governments, states and zonal where many of our members have complaints, effectively presenting us with a fait accompli.” Oyegun Inaugurates State Chairmen Amidst Tension Meanwhile, the headquarters of the governing APC, venue for the inauguration of state executives of the party, was yesterday enveloped in tension as national chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, inaugurated the elected state chairmen of the party. LEADERSHIP gathered that the inauguration ceremony was shrouded in anxiety following unresolved issues plaguing the recently concluded state congresses. It was also learnt that security operatives were strategically positioned at both the main entrance to the party headquarters as early as 10:00am. The security operatives were said to have had a hectic day battling to curtail the influx of party members and their teeming supporters who besieged the secretariat. Despite efforts by security details attached to the Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu and his Women Affairs counterpart, Aisha Al-Hassan, both ministers were denied access to the venue. It was a rowdy situation through out the duration of the event as factional chairmen and their supporters battled endlessly to gain entrance into the main hall of the event. It also degenerated into a shouting match and threats among supporters of the factions who were denied access to the place. The factional chairman from the Communications minister’s home state was also denied entry to the place, just as the party national leadership opted for the faction loyal to the state governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. While inaugurating the elected state chairmen of the party, Oyegun charged them to ensure victory for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. He said, “You have the onerous task of nurturing APC. You have to work hard to return the party to its lost glory. Also, make sure you work hard for the reelection of our President. We are aware of conflicts, disaffections and bad blood in the party. Put all these aside and work for the victory of our party at the 2019 general elections. “Go and tell the people of the great achievements recorded by the APC Government. Your Government is on the right course. A firm foundation has been laid for the development of Nigeria. Inspite of lean resources, APC has
achieved much more in three years. “Get acquainted with the achievements put together in a document which I will make available to you. Tell Nigerians the achievements of your government. In infrastructure; a lot of roads have been constructed, agriculture; much rice is produced, transport, rail is there and power we now have 7000 megawatts”. Stressing the need for what he described as quick reconciliation, Oyegun listed Rivers, Taraba, Oyo, Delta, Lagos, among others as states where urgency was needed. He said, “Let the chairmen here wait and should not inaugurate their EXCOS like the others until the issues with the Congresses in such states are resolved. “I’m going to set up a committee headed by the Deputy National Chairman North to study the situations in such states for possible actions. There will be concessions and harmonisations after the exercise within this week”.