LIFE IN BRIEF Hajiya Aisha Datti Abubakar is a Kano-born business woman and philanthropist. She was born in Kaduna where her father was serving as military personnel. She later moved back to Kano where she was reared by grandparents. She is a business woman and also runs a charity organisation – Orphans and Women Support Foundation (OWSF). Background I am Hajiya Aisha Datti Abubakar, a Kano-born business woman and philanthropist. I was born in Kaduna, where my father served as military personnel. Later I relocated to Kano, knowing the trend of those serving in the military; my father had to be moved from one location to another, so he decided I should return to Kano, to enable me concentrate on my educational career. It is important to state that originally we are Kano indigenes. I returned home and lived with my grandfather to avoid the disruption of my academic career. My grandfather who in his days was the traditional ruler of Karaye ensured I was well taken care of. At the time, you were going to school; most other girls did not enjoy similar opportunity? It was easier for me as my parents were educated and so they took it seriously that I acquire education. How would you access the current situation of girl child education particularly in the North? There is improvement in the number and level of education among Arewa women. Our women now identify and admit the importance attached to the acquisition of education and its quality specifically. But I must state that I am not satisfied with the level our women have attained in their acquisition of education. The turn up is improving, the level of awareness is heightened but we still need to do more to get more women to embrace education. The pace is slow, we need more girls to be enrolled into our schools. You are always indulged in one form of charity service or the other, what inspires you? I grew up seeing my grandfather come to the aid of people in need. I saw the trait in my father, they both were accommodating and bubbled in the spirit of philanthropy, I inherited same from them, In simple description, I grew up to see my grandfather and father helping people. Charity work My charity organisation, Orphans and Women Support Foundation (OWSF), is run on the tripod of five pillars which revolve around, orphans, women who dropped out of school or could not afford to acquire education. We get them enrolled and fund their education cost, the orphans, I am very pathetic about, from the resources at my disposal, we cater for those we can afford to accommodate. We also liaise with professional health organisations to render pro bono health services to our rural people. This is made possible through mobile clinic services which we provide to those residing in remote areas. Regrets I have no regrets rather, I will love to do more, putting smile on the faces of people is of immense importance in my dedication to serve humanity. Let me note here that, by mere smiling at someone, you possibly must have impacted on his or her life. It is not all about money. There are so many tunnels through which we can serve humanity. Challenges Challenges abound, you cannot do it alone. It requires team work, collaboration is essential, if truly you are out to achieve your mission as a charity worker or philanthropist, you approach people for collaboration; sometimes they are unwillingly to form ally. They nurse the thinking that you may be you are getting sponsorship from a source you do not want to disclose. Even when you explain that what you are doing is for the purpose of service to mankind, they tend to see it from the other side. We are moving on, let me say it here that, this year, during Ramadan, we provided for over 600 needy persons on daily basis. We provided them with food to break their fast and I want to state that this is part of service to Allah, and the people were able to meet their religious obligation. They got rewarded and I believe members of my team and I also benefitted from the divine reward. Embarrassing moment I wouldn’t know in what sense. But I am proud to say, I have never been embarrassed or felt embarrassed, never. Are women from the North delving into charity work as would have been expected? More women need to delve into charity work. As mothers, we are in a better position to handle cases involving women and children and this would help address the rampant cases of divorce and juvenile delinquency cases that are ravaging our society. Our women must arise and confront this hydra-headed phenomenon and this can only be possible if we devote part of our time to the serve others. Are you worried by the rise in the number of divorce cases in the North? It is worrisome. I am worried and all of us should be concerned and worried that a large number of women are suffering from depression. They suffer from neglect. Why feign pretence that these problems don’t exist? No, that is not true. They do exist amongst us and we should definitely show concern and worry over the situation currently confronting us. For us, what we are doing to contribute our own quota is that we empower this set of women, teach them soap making and sewing skills. Counselling sessions are also organised to educate them on how to handle and overcome some of these challenges earlier mentioned. Do you find time to relax at all? I relax by chatting and watching movies Favourite colour Purple Peculiar life style Helping to serve the purpose of humanity is my peculiar life style. Favourite food Meat, chicken, anything simply called meat.