Kaduna State governor,Malam Nadir El-Rufai, has launched the state residency card programme to enable government to better plan, implement and monitor the delivery of essential public services. Speaking during the flag-off held at Rigasa,Kaduna, El-Rufai, said by identifying precisely who lives in Kaduna State, together with relevant data, the government is better able to develop and implement targeted initiatives and provide social services which would ensure that no one is left behind, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. The governor noted that, health sector was already delivering on the government’s manifesto commitment to provide free health care in public hospitals for the vulnerable in the society, especially pregnant women, children below five years and senior citizens. El-Rufai, added that it would be much better if the state’s health sector managers know precisely how many residents are within the segment, and where they are. The governor said the social investment Programme of the Federal Government is already piloting the payment of N5,000 monthly to some beneficiaries in some of the poorest parts of the state:”But it would be much better if the FGN knew each and every citizen that can benefit from this monthly cash transfer programme.” “The situation in our education sector further illustrates the importance of accurate data. The overcrowded school in Rigasa made national headlines after we revealed its existence. But how did one primary school in Rigasa come about having more than 20,000 pupils? Was any agency tracking population growth in the area, and responding with projects to expand the school capacity to meet the demographic explosion? A modern government needs to know the vital socio-economic statistics, or it will be reduced to the uncertainty of guesswork, groping in the dark and thereby wasting public resources by not matching projects and services with actual needs.” The governor added:”The Residency Card Programme is aimed at building a robust and secure database of residents for effective public administration and delivery of sustainable social services. Through this process, government will gather population records that capture the data of all residents in Kaduna State and use this data to plan properly for the provision of schools, hospitals, roads and other critical infrastructure.” “The Residency Card will also serve as an all-in-one multi-purpose card for identification, a debit card for financial transactions, a platform for receiving salaries and other means of social service delivery for financial inclusion. The Programme is also a strategic part of our e-Governance automation platform with Microsoft. “Most importantly, after registration, residents will also have a unique identification number from the National Identity Management Commission, which will help in checkmating identity fraud and improve the level of trust in the society. This will also allow for thorough evidence-based justice system and effective law enforcement activities in our State.” In 2016, we embarked on a journey, in partnership with the National Identity Management Commission, to deliver Residency Cards to all residents in Kaduna State through the Kaduna State Residency Card Programme. Currently, there are 58 Residency Card Registrations Centres across Kaduna State. Three Mobile Enrolment Buses are also shuttling within Kaduna Metropolis, bringing the registration process to the elderly and persons living with physical disabilities. The ultimate goal is to ensure ease of access by scaling up the registration centres to 255 with one in each ward of our 23 Local Governments.” El-Rufai said.