President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday expressed concern over what he described as massive distortion of the 2018 budget by the National Assembly, saying it will make the budget difficult to implement.
He spoke after signing the budget into law seven months after presenting the 2018 appropriation bill to the National Assembly.
While the president had on November 7, 2017 presented a proposal of N8.612trillion for the 2018 fiscal year to the National Assembly, the lawmakers on May 17 this year passed N9.12trillion as the budget, thereby increasing it by N508billion.
In his remarks after signing the budget at the presidential villa yesterday, the president regretted that the federal lawmakers slashed N347 billion in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and introduced fresh 6,403 projects of their own amounting to N578 billion. Buhari lamented that many of the projects cut are critical and may be difficult, if not impossible, to implement with the reduced allocation, even as he pointed out that some of the new projects inserted by the National Assembly have not been properly conceptualized, designed and costed and will, therefore, be difficult to execute.
For instance, the president cited the increase in the budget of the National Assembly itself, which he said has increased by N14.5 billion, from N125 billion to N139.5 billion without any discussion with the executive.
He said, “As I mentioned during the presentation of the 2018 Appropriation Bill, we intend to use the 2018 Budget to consolidate the achievements of previous budgets and deliver on Nigeria’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) 2017-2020.
“It is in this regard that I am concerned about some of the changes that the National Assembly has made to the budget proposals that I presented. The logic behind the Constitutional direction that budgets should be proposed by the Executive is that it is the Executive that knows and defines its policies and projects.
“Unfortunately, that has not been given much regard in what has been sent to me. The National Assembly made cuts amounting to 347 billion Naira in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and introduced 6,403 projects of their own amounting to 578 billion Naira”. The president noted that many of the new projects introduced by the National Assembly have been added to the budgets of most MDAs with no consideration for institutional capacity to execute them or the incremental recurrent expenditure that may be required.
He further explained that as it is, some of the projects relate to matters that are the responsibility of states and local governments, which the federal government should ordinarily not be unduly worried about.
Citing examples of projects from which cuts were made, Buhari said, “The provisions for some nationally/regionally strategic infrastructure projects such as Counter-part funding for the Mambilla Power Plant, Second Niger Bridge/ancillary roads, the East-West Road, Bonny-Bodo Road, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and Itakpe-Ajaokuta Rail Project were cut by an aggregate of 11.5 billion Naira.
“Similarly, provisions for some ongoing critical infrastructure projects in the FCT, Abuja especially major arterial roads and the mass transit rail project, were cut by a total of 7.5 billion Naira.
“The provision for Rehabilitation and Additional Security Measures for the United Nations Building by the FCT, Abuja was cut by 3.9 billion Naira from 4 billion Naira to 100 million Naira; this will make it impossible for the Federal Government of Nigeria to fulfill its commitment to the United Nations on this project. “The provisions for various Strategic Interventions in the health sector such as the upgrade of some tertiary health institutions, transport and storage of vaccines through the cold chain supply system, provision of anti-retroviral drugs for persons on treatment, establishment of chemotherapy centres and procurement of dialysis consumables were cut by an aggregate amount of 7.45 billion Naira.
The president continued: “The provision for security infrastructure in the 104 Unity Schools across the country were cut by 3 billion Naira at a time when securing our students against acts of terrorism ought to be a major concern of government. The provision for the Federal Government’s National Housing Programme was cut by 8.7 billion Naira.
“At a time when we are working with Labour to address compensation-related issues, a total of 5 billion Naira was cut from the provisions for Pension Redemption Fund and Public Service Wage Adjustment.
“The provisions for Export Expansion Grant (EEG) and Special Economic Zones/Industrial Parks, which are key industrialization initiatives of this Administration, were cut by a total of 14.5 billion Naira. The provision for Construction of the Terminal Building at Enugu Airport was cut from 2 billion Naira to 500 million Naira which will further delay the completion of this critical project.
“The Take-off Grant for the Maritime University in Delta State, a key strategic initiative of the Federal Government, was cut from 5 billion Naira to 3.4 billion Naira.
“About seventy (70) new road projects have been inserted into the budget of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. In doing so, the National Assembly applied some of the additional funds expected from the upward review of the oil price benchmark to the Ministry’s vote. Regrettably, however, in order to make provision for some of the new roads, the amount allocated to some strategic major roads have been cut by the National Assembly”.
Expressing worry over the increase of the provisions for Statutory Transfers by an aggregate of N73.96 billion by the National Assembly, Buhari observed that most of these increases are for recurrent expenditure at a time the government is trying to keep down the cost of governance. The president however said despite the above observations, he decided to sign the 2018 budget in order not to further slowdown the pace of recovery of the country’s economy, which he said has doubtlessly been affected by the delay in passing the budget.
“However, it is my intention to seek to remedy some of the most critical of these issues through a supplementary and/or amendment budget which I hope the National Assembly will be able to expeditiously consider.
According to him, he will soon send a supplementary budget to the National Assembly.
The president thanked the leadership of the National Assembly, particularly the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as well as all the Senators and members of the House for passing the 2018 Appropriation Bill after seven months.
Buhari noted that when he submitted the 2018 Budget proposals to the National Assembly on 7th November 2017, he had hoped that the usual legislative review process would be quick so as to move Nigeria towards a predictable January-December financial year.
He observed that even though the federal government’s budget represents less than 10 per cent of aggregate yearly expenditures in the economy, “it has a very significant accelerator effect on the financial plans of other tiers of government, and even more importantly, the private sector, which mostly operates on a January-December financial year”.
Buhari reiterated his determination to continue to work with the National Assembly towards improving the budgeting process and restoring our country to the January-December fiscal cycle. He specifically noted that the National Assembly is working on the enactment of an Organic Budget Law so as to improve the efficiency of the nation’s budgetary process.
He expressed satisfaction with the success recorded in the implementation of the 2017 budget, noting that a total sum of N1.5 trillion has been released for the implementation of capital projects during the 2017 fiscal year.
“In response to this and other policy measures implemented, we have observed significant improvement in the performance of the Nigerian economy,” he added.
To achieve the laudable objectives of the 2018 Budget, Buhari stated that his administration will work very hard to generate the revenues required to finance their projects and programmes.
He said the positive global oil market outlook, as well as continuing improvement in non-oil revenues,” make us optimistic about our ability to finance the budget”. Buhari disclosed that since it is a deficit budget, the borrowing plan will be forwarded to the National Assembly shortly, just as he craved the indulgence of the National Assembly for a speedy consideration and approval of the plan.
“The 2018 Budget I have just signed into law provides for aggregate expenditures of 9.12 trillion Naira, which is 22.6% higher than the 2017 Appropriation. Further details of the approved budget will be provided by the Minister of Budget and National Planning”, he added.
Speaking to State House correspondents after the signing, Deputy Leader of the Senate, Ibn Na’Allah, who represented the Senate president, said the president made it clear that it is going to be a buildup on the achievements recorded so far in his administration in impacting positively on the life of Nigerians.
Asked about the concerns raised by the president, he said, “No we are not worried; the job of parliamentarians is a very difficult one. The way the budget came, if we had allowed it to go that way, we would have been in trouble with those who elected us. You have to balance between the six geopolitical zones.
“It is the balancing efforts by the National Assembly that led to those observations and happily enough, he himself has said he is coming with a supplementary budget which will be dealt with as quickly as possible. I assure you about that one”.
On whether there is timeline for the supplementary budget, he noted that since it has not been brought, the lawmakers cannot give any timeline. He noted that normally, supplementary budgets does not last long, as it will be built on what has already been done by the National Assembly.
On the president’s complaint about delay in passing the budget, he said, “The president is right, but at the same time, if you remember, you were here when the president had to order some MDAs to appear before the National Assembly for the purpose of defending their budgets.
“It is a very delicate issue. If somebody said he wants N500 million for the maintenance of bridges nationwide, then you expect the National Assembly to say okay that budget should be approved because it came from the executive? Then we have not done our work. We will be interested in knowing which of the roads you are going to maintain so that, again, we don’t give another allocation in the next budget. Those observations are correct but in the budgeting process those things are normal”.
On his part, the Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Ado Doguwa, said some of these major concerns President Buhari raised are very critical.
He stated: ” I am afraid if I should be in a position to respond on behalf of the House. But for me as an individual and a member of the House of Representatives, I want to belief that the president is at liberty to raise some of these observations.
“But the most important thing you have to know is that the budget has been signed and is now a law of the federation and we expect the executive to now implement the law to the letter”. We Acted Within Our Powers – NASS
But in a swift reaction, the National Assembly insisted yesterday that it acted within the ambit of the law in its work on the 2018 budget, saying the legislature was not under any obligation to rubber-stamp an executive proposal in considering the annual budget.
Apparently reacting to the issues raised by President Muhammadu Buhari on the 2018 budget, the House of Representatives, in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Hon Abdulrazak Namdas, stated that the power of appropriation was vested in the National Assembly, and as such it could alter budgetary proposals by the executive arm of government.
The House, however, expressed readiness to welcome supplementary budget proposal from the executive.
Namdas in the statement said, “The budget is usually a proposal by the executive to the National Assembly, which the latter is given the constitutional power of appropriation to alter, make additions, costs or reduce as it may deem necessary. The legislature is not expected to be a rubberstamp by simply approving the executive proposals and returning the budget to Mr. President. Therefore, the additions Mr. President complained of in his speech are justifiable.” Namdas also blamed the inability to achieve a budget cycle of January – December from the year 2018 on late submission of the proposal.
“We are on the same page with Mr. President in his desire to return our budget cycle to January-December. By the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act 2007, the budget estimates should be with the National Assembly around September of the year. In the case of the 2018 budget, the estimates came behind schedule in November 2017, even though this attempt was seen as one of the earliest in recent years. Going forward, we urge the executive to speed up the reporting time to the National Assembly by complying fully with the FRA,” he stated.
Namdas also noted that there were delays that should be blamed on the heads of ministries, agencies and departments (MDAs).
“Mr. President will recall that he had to direct ministers and heads of agencies to go to the National Assembly to defend their proposals. This came after the National Assembly had persistently raised the alarm over the non-cooperative attitudes of these government officials. On these grounds, the delay in passing the budget cannot be blamed on the legislature,” Namdas added.
While making reference to the new projects infused into the budget, Namdas said, “We have to remind Mr. President that we are representatives of our people and wish to state that even the common man deserves a mention in the budget by including projects that will directly affect his life positively. Some of the projects designed by the executive, as high-sounding as their names suggest, do not meet the needs of the common man.” He, however, explained that increment in the National Assembly budget from N125 billion to N139 billion was still short of the N150 billion in the years before 2015.
“Before 2015, the budget of the National Assembly was N150 billion for several years. It was cut down to N120 billion in 2015 and further down to N115 billion in 2016. In 2017, the budget was N125 billion and N139.5 billion in 2018,” he stated.
On its part, the Senate concurred with the House that the actions of the National Assembly in working on the budget were backed by provisions of the constitution.
A statement signed by the chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Publicity, Dr. Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, noted: “The Senate has seen the statement issued by our sister chamber, the House of Representatives, in response to the issues raised by President Muhammadu Buhari on the 2018 Appropriation Bill while signing it into law earlier today, and we totally agree with the position stated therein.
“It should also be noted that the leadership of both chambers have directed the chairmen of our committees on appropriations to provide, item-by-item, detailed explanations on all points raised by the president for the benefit of members of the public. They will address a press conference on Friday, June 22, 2018.
“It should however be noted that the action of the National Assembly while working on the budget was informed by the provision of the constitution on the need for inclusion, balance and the fact that the first responsibility of government is the security and welfare of all citizens”. No Cause for Alarm Over $50.5 Oil Benchmark – Experts
Meanwhile, some experts in the oil and gas industry yesterday said there was no cause for alarm over the increase in the crude oil benchmark from $45 per barrel to $50.5 per barrel.
In separate interviews in Lagos, they observed that the trade war between China and United States had led to a reduction in the price of crude oil at the international market.
The former president of the Society for Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Mr Saka Matemilola, said the benchmark in the 2018 budget was very sensible at $50.5 per barrel.
According to Matemilola, the benchmark of $50.5 per barrel was very sensible because he did not expect oil price to go below $55 per barrel by the end of the year, irrespective of whatever happens between China and the U.S.
“What we should be concerned about is how we can utilise the savings from excess crude price which goes to excess crude account. How do we spend this savings that will impact meaningfully on average Nigerians?
“There is a huge infrastructural gap that needs to be closed. Infrastructure like hospitals, roads and power need to be invested in so that Nigerians can feel the impact of the rising crude oil price,” he said.
The chief executive officer of Consistent Energy, Mr Segun Adaju, said, “Naturally, oil price fluctuates and the benchmark price of $50.5/barrel in the 2018 budget is an average for the year 2018.” According to him, it is certain that oil price may not go below $50.5 per barrel this year, with half of the year gone, adding that there is nothing to be worried about.
The chairman of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Western Zone, Alhaji Debo Ahmed, described the crude oil benchmark at $50.5 per barrel as the right thing to do, saying it would bring hope to the populace and boost the economy considering the $70 current price of crude oil globally.
“Crude was $80 per barrel before it dropped to $70 due to the rift between China and United States of America. I think $50.5 is even conservative but it is better to be on the safe side. So, for me, it is a commendable effort,” Ahmed said.
The Federal Executive Council (FEC) had on October 26, 2017 approved the 2018 draft budget of N8.612 trillion but the National Assembly increased the budget to N9.12 trillion.
The Senate also increased the crude oil benchmark for the budget from $45 per barrel to $50.5 per barrel in the 2018 budget.
Crude oil production was bench-marked at 2.3 million barrels per day with an exchange rate of N305 to one dollar.