Former Vice President Alhaji Atiku Abubakar yesterday declared that he would not defect from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) anymore even if he fails to secure the party’s presidential ticket. Atiku stated this at the national secretariat of the PDP in Abuja where he formally notified the National Working Committee (NWC) of his intention to seek the presidential ticket of the party. The former vice president, who was accompanied by party chieftains, also called for free and transparent presidential primaries, saying it would boost the party’s chances in the presidential election. He said, “Whether I become the presidential candidate or not, I want to assure you that I will always discharge my obligations to this party. “If we can sustain the kind of primary that we had in Ekiti, there is no doubt that this party will be on its way to regaining the pre-eminence in power that we were known for,” Atiku stated. In his response, PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, assured Atiku and his delegation that the party under his watch would ensure free and fair elections, adding that imposition and impunity were now things of the past in the party. The PDP boss, however, criticised the President Muhammadu Buhari administration for what it described as its mismanagement of the nation’s economy and it poor handling of the anti-corruption war, even as he derided the administration for clamping down on members of his party. “The NWC and the National Executive Committee (NEC) have vowed to return this party to power in line with the vision of the founding fathers. That is why we rebranded and repositioned to remove every shade of impunity or imposition. “Our chapters now have more powers devolved to them by the national secretariat and we can assure you of credible, free and fair primaries. We will do more than we did in Ekiti,” Secondus assured. Former PDP national chairman and member of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Council, Okwesilieze Nwodo, urged the party to ensure that only the best aspirants emerge candidates in the party. He condemned government’s handling of the spates of killings in the land, saying a man like Atiku was what the nation needs to restore hope. “Another four years at the point where we are today, this country will cease to exist,” Nwodo said. He dismissed allegations against Atiku bordering on corruption, as he challenged anyone with a shred of evidence against the former vice president to come forward with it, saying no one has approached the anti-corruption agencies in that regard thus far. “People say he is corrupt but he has challenged us to blow the whistle on him. We are waiting for a whistle to be blown. He has never held a position where he can approve monies,” Nwodo said. Atiku was accompanied to the party’s headquarters by the director-general of his campaign council, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, and former Police Affairs minister, Ambassador Maina Waziri, among others.