Acting chairman of the Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) recognised by Governor Rochas Okorocha’s camp, Chris Oguoma, yesterday described the swearing-in of Chief Hillary Eke as the new state chairman of the party by the national chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun as fallacious, null and void and of no consequence. Briefing newsmen in Owerri, the Imo State capital, Oguoma argued that Oyegun defied a valid Court Order that restrained the party from recognising any list from the purported state congress in Imo State. Oguoma who was before now, the vice chairman Owerri Zone, contended that, “the outgoing national chairman, John Oyegun, acted illegally and as far as we are concerned in Imo APC, that action is null and void and of no effect. The reason is that we have a subsisting Court Order and he was advised by the National Legal Adviser of the party against this lawlessness.Only Oyegun knows what motivated his illegal actions, but that is not our business. We are still conducting the affairs of the party normally and wish to stress that the actions of Oyegun, does not in any way whatsoever, affect what we are doing here”. “In the first place there was no ward or local government congresses anywhere in the state so where did the list that Oyegun inaugurated emanate from? The only legitimate APC Executive in Imo State is the one am heading”. Further condemning Oyegun’s action, Oguoma averred that the former chairman was suspended by the State Working Committee of the party for brazen violation of the party’s constitution. According to him, “On May 5th we all waited in all our various wards to conduct the congress but nothing happened, there were no result sheets and we concluded that the exercise did not hold and we advised our members to go home and await further directives but the following day, Eke came out from nowhere and announced that the congress was conducted. Based on this, the SWC of the party met and suspended him and that action has not been reviewed”. Decrying continued attacks on the Imo governor by sections of the party, the acting chairman, noted that “None of those maligning Governor Rochas Okorocha has the clout or will power to drive the party in the zone”. “Okorocha is the undisputable leader of the party in the state and the entire Southeast zone and he is the only one that can drive the process. So the APC needs his support to succeed in the state and zone,” he added.