The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday said the power of incumbency would not determine who wins the 2019 presidential election. Chairman of the commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, who stated this in Lagos during the commission’s meeting with private sector forum organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), stated that the people were getting more politically educated and that power of incumbency would no longer determine who wins election in Nigeria. Yakubu, while reacting to questions about concerns of Nigerians on the credibility of the 2019 general elections and the incumbency factors, said the commission was ready to conduct free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria. “The incumbency factor will not determine who wins election in Nigeria,” Yakubu said, apparently allaying fears from Nigerians, many of whom are doubtful of the impartiality of the electoral umpire. LEADERSHIP recalls that President Muhammadu Buhari had recently urged Nigerians within the voting age to register and make sure they vote for their preferred candidates in the 2019 general elections. Yakubu revealed that since April 2017 when the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise started, some 9,700,999 new voters had been registered as at 14th June 2018, adding that the number of registered voters in the country will surpass 80 million at the time of elections. “If we add this to the current register of 69,720,350 voters, we will have a register of over 80 million voters in 2019. Since CRV is ongoing, clearly the number will rise above 80 million,” Yakubu said. “Election will be conducted in 119,973, 809 Wards (Registration Areas); 68 political parties, the largest number in our electoral history. This figure is set to rise as the Commission processes more applications (138 as at last week) from associations seeking registration as political parties.” Yakubu maintained that election process in Nigeria is improving, saying nobody can determine who wins but the people. “The large number of off-season elections conducted since the 2015 general elections have enabled us to fine-tune many of our plans. With such elections conducted into 180 constituencies and counting, it is becoming clear to us that elections are getting better, both in terms of preparations and outcome. “There is now few litigations challenging the outcome of elections than we experienced in the past. So far only four out of 180 elections conducted have been successfully challenged in court”, he said. The INEC chairman affirmed that the Commission would continue to deepen the use of technology in the conduct and management of elections. On why the commission was meeting with the business community, Yakubu said they had a stake in the country’s democracy. “You are a major influencer of public opinion. Since a good election is good for business, our first appeal to you is to use your influence in doing advocacy for peaceful elections,” Yakubu told the business community. He contended that if prominent businessmen and women actively advocate for peaceful elections, the impact on voter turnout would also be considerable.