Amid growing criticism of his administration, President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that the task of defending his government or person is an easy one. Buhari, who made this comment yesterday when members of the Buhari Media Group paid him a courtesy call at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said the group’s steadiness in defending his administration programme and politics had motivated him. Buhari observed that the opposition was sitting on enormous resources – which the ruling party cannot match, and has been using such resources to sponsor mischief in the media. He said, “I don’t think I can thank you enough for your steadfastness under very difficult circumstances. It is not easy to defend this administration and more in particular to defend me, but your consistency has given me a lot of confidence. And I know you are doing it as a sacrifice, both physical, mental and material. Because as I keep on saying, the opposition now are sitting on incredible resources which, I am afraid, we might not match it at all. “For that reason the opposition is sponsoring mischief from different angles which, in spite of the incumbency of government, we cannot absolutely stop. It is you that are fighting it and I cannot thank you enough for that.” He remarked that the sacrifices the group had made, coupled with their commitment all this while showed they were not motivated by personal gain. “So I can recognise the sacrifices most of you sitting here have made in terms of material, even losing friends to continue to support me since I have been here for three years. You have proven to people that you are not here for material things; your opinion is out of sacrifice. “I am sure you are being asked: ‘This support you are busy giving Buhari, what do you get out of it?’ And that is why I commend your steadfastness and I am very grateful for it. And in this country, whether people like it or not, they will remain grateful for your courage because you have the courage to do the research, take your time to reply mischievous representation, and we are very grateful,” he stated.