A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN, has promised to set up a committee to look at the issue of an additional state for the South-east on the first day of his presidency, if he emerges president in 2019. Addressing PDP members including delegates to the party’s national convention at the state secretariat in Owerri, Imo State yesterday, Tanimu who reiterated his belief in restructuring, said he will ensure true federalism, resource control, devolution of power and additional state for the South-east. He noted that the Nigeria Police are being overstretched in the execution of its constitutional duties, saying that his administration, if he is given the opportunity to become the president, will look at the issue of state police. Tanimu explained that his presidential aspiration and that of other aspirants in the PDP is not about individual interests, but about salvaging Nigeria from the shackles of insecurity, poverty, economic strangulation and pervasive injustice and intimidation, which the All Progressives Congress (APC) has subjected Nigerians to. Senator Sam Anyanwu (PDP Imo State) described the presidential aspirant as a man of conscience for addressing fundamental issues that are troubling the nation, while the chairman, PDP Imo State, Barrister Charles Ezekwem noted that Tanimu’s antecedents puts him in a strong contention for the mandate which he is seeking. The presidential aspirant had earlier paid a courtesy visit on a veteran politician, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, the Ahaeji Aga Mba Ndigbo, who assured Tanimu that he is ‘not difficult to market in Igboland’ considering his integrity, dynamism, depth of knowledge of Nigeria’s problems which he promised to address, and his capacity to build bridges of friendship across the country. “I regard you as a serious candidate judging by your pedigree and the quality of your campaign team,” Chief Iwuanyanwu said. The veteran politician noted that the Igbo youth are not happy about the current situation. “The truth is,” he said, “this government (federal government) has not patronised us much.” Chief Iwuanyanwu who noted also that Nigeria is a great country, stated that nobody will support the breakup of the country.