Leaders of 45 political parties yesterday moved to stop the planned impeachment of the president of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki. This is even as they raised the alarm over an alleged plot by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to freeze the account of the Senate and that of its president, Bukola Saraki, to force a leadership change at the Red Chamber. The national chairman of National Unity Party (NUP), Perry Okpara , who spoke on behalf of the parties during a courtesy visit to the Senate President, said, “We have it on good authority that there are moles in the Senate and there are moves to freeze the accounts of the Senate and that of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, to effect a forceful leadership change.” In his response, Saraki said he would remain focused and not get distracted by any undemocratic moves from any quarters. Addressing the Senate president, Okpara further revealed that there was a new plot to overthrow the leadership of the National Assembly, adding that the move was to cripple the parliament. “We wish to alert Nigerians of a new plot by the same people, whose first shameful attempt to unlawfully overthrow the leadership of the National Assembly failed; an attempt, which brought Nigeria to bad international limelight. “We have it on good authority that a fresh plot is being hatched to make another attempt to cripple the parliament in the guise of impeachment, even when they know that there is no constitutional majority to achieve such sinister move. “We wish to state that we, the chairmen and leaders of political parties, will not support or stand by to watch any unconstitutional impeachment of the leadership of the National Assembly,” he avowed. Okpara, who did not mention the name of the agency plotting to freeze the accounts of Saraki and that of the Senate, said that the political parties would not sit by and watch the country slide into anarchy. “Nigeria is gradually turning into a failed state and all the institutions of state have been compromised and desecrated. This is the time to rise in defence of democratic values and nationhood,” he added. Saraki, in his response, thanked the chairmen of political parties for their support for democracy. He assured them that he would not allow himself to be distracted by the antics of law breakers. According to him, the undemocratic forces are supposed to have learnt their lesson from the failure of their illegal move for leadership change in the Senate on Tuesday. The political parties present were United Democratic Party (UDP), Rebuild Nigeria Party (RNP), People for Democratic Change (PDC), Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), Progressives Peoples Party (PPP), Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Alliance for Democracy (AD), Young Democratic Party (YDP), Action Peoples Party (APP), National Interest Party (NIS), National Conscience Party (NCP), KOWA Party and Action Alliance (AA), among others. He’s not fit to be Senate president, APC insists The All Progressives Congress (APC) has again thrown another barb at Dr Bukola Saraki, saying that he is not fit to hold office as the Senate president and head of the National Assembly. Describing him as a traitor, the APC further accused Senator Saraki as being self-serving and not a good example for political leadership. In a statement signed by the acting national publicity secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, the APC urged the Senate to “do everything possible to put Dr Saraki where he rightly belongs – the back seat,” adding that, “He is definitely not a fit and proper person to preside over the country’s upper and revered legislative house.” The statement reads in part: “Having suffered under the 16-year misrule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Saraki will go down in our country’s history as the worst Senate president Nigeria has had the misfortune to have. Since his usurpation of the coveted seat, achieved through a wicked conspiracy with members of the opposition PDP, it has been from one controversy to another: the Code of Conduct trial for false declaration of assets; conspiracy with his deputy to fraudulently alter the rules of the Senate, and links to the deadly armed robbers who wasted many lives in the Offa robbery attack. It is alleged that some of the robbery suspects were his political thugs used to rig elections; a common adage says: ‘Show me your friends and I will tell you who you are.’ “Dr Saraki is definitely not our good example for political leadership. All over the world, the leadership of the legislature is provided by the political party with majority members. But Dr Saraki would, in the absence of many members of his former party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), connive and conspire with members of the opposition PDP to emerge Senate president, and in the process trade off the deputy Senate president position to the opposition PDP – a political betrayal and treachery even the devil would be envious of.” Nabena further noted that even with the recent defections mostly to the PDP, the APC still commands the majority seats in the upper house, yet the Senate president is not minded to relinquish his seat, even as he described Saraki as a turn coat. “Even at this time he has defected to the opposition PDP, and with APC still in the majority in the Senate, Dr Saraki still has the impudence to present himself as the Senate president. Political ambition should be made of nobler stuff. “One is, of course, not surprised as Dr Saraki’s greed, selfishness, treachery, disregard for protocol and constituted authority is well-reported. In terms of treachery, Dr Saraki’s public humiliation of his late father and sister comes readily to mind. “A traitor will always be a traitor, however the time and place. A man who betrayed his father, sister, his party PDP in 2014, the APC in 2015 by conspiring with opposition PDP senators to emerge Senate President; APC administration by sabotaging the executive and defecting to the PDP in 2018 has no character, principles, values and integrity,” the APC spokesperson said. According to him, Saraki will abandon the PDP again once he cannot achieve his personal ambition in the party. APC Majority In Senate Must Stand, Osinbajo Tell PMB’s Kinsmen Acting President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday told Katsina North electorate that they had it as a collective duty to ensure that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari retain its majority in the Senate. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that Katsina North is the home constituency of President Muhammadu Buhari, who is away from the country on a 10-day vacation in the UK. Osinbajo spoke shortly before presenting Hon. Ahmed Babba Kaita as the flag bearer of the party in the Saturday August 11, Katsina North Senatorial District by-election during a mega rally which had the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, and no fewer than three governors in attendance at Kangiwa Square, Daura, the hometown of President Buhari. The acting president listed the reasons why the kinsmen of the president should vote for Kaita: “The first reason is we must have majority in the Senate. Politics is about numbers; we want to maintain our majority in the Senate.” Osinabjo also noted that the senatorial seat to be filled was occupied by a Daura prince and Madaiki Daura, Senator Mustapha Bukar, until his demise; thus every vote at the forthcoming poll for Kaita is in memory of Senator Bukar and a vote for APC as well as Buhari. He attributed the continued battle between good and evil in the country to the desperation of a few past leaders who looted the commonwealth of Nigerians but were still bent on returning to power by all means. According to him, projects such as Mambila Power plant, abandoned for about 40 years, and other projects on the drawing board for decades had been revived and were being completed by the present administration because of the judicious application of the nation’s resources by the present government. On his part, APC chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, noted that Kaita was a political son of Buhari and his avowed supporter in Abuja. “There are thieves bent on destroying this country. We know that Kaita will not be one of them if he comes to the Senate,” Oshiomhole said. In his speech, the state governor, Aminu Bello Masari, urged the people of Katsina North to ensure the victory of APC at the poll, adding that “every effort of Buhari in bringing about change in the quality of lives is for all of us.” Among other APC chieftains present at the rally were the Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, who stood in for other governors of the North West zone, and the representative of his Kaduna State counterpart, Nasir el Rufai.