Kwara state has been adjudged as second in infrastructure and economic growth in Nigeria by Africa Report in its July/August issue titled’The State of the States’. Oladipo Magaji reports: Kwara state has been ranked second after Lagos in Nigeria in the latest Progress Report, titled ‘The State of the States’ released by Africa Report in its July/August, 2018 issue. The Africa Report is an international publication of reference dedicated to African affairs, and is the guide used by decision makers to anticipate economic and political changes in Africa. The publication is relied upon for the expertise of an independent editorial team in its surveys, sector reports and country focus published in each issue. According to information available on the Africa Report website-www.theafricareport.com,  the survey of Nigeria’s 36 states used fighting poverty, providing access to electricity, facilitating business and raising local revenue as indices. In terms of Internally Generated Revenue per capita, Kwara ranks seventh out of the 36 states of the federation while it ranks tenth in the ease of doing business. The State also ranks tenth on the poverty index. In terms of access to electricity, Kwara was ranked third and sixth in number of internet users in the country. The summation of the indices put Kwara at second position in the progress report. The full report can be found on pages 22 to 26 of the July/August, 2018 edition of the Africa Report. Responding to the report, Kwara state governor, Alh Abdulfatah Ahmed described Africa Reports’ ranking of the state as the second highest in the country as an affirmation of his administration’s reform programmes and an acknowledgement of its efforts to enhance the welfare, security and prosperity of all citizens and residents. The governor pledged his preparedness to sustain the administration’s ongoing drive to build a prosperous and sustainable Kwara state for the benefit of current and future generations of Kwarans. Meanwhile, Governor Ahmed has ordered the immediate reconstruction of the collapsed Bukka Adena bridge along Jebba-Kaiama road in Moro local government area of the state. He equally ordered the reconstruction of  the collapsed culverts and damaged portion of Tsaragi-Shonga road in Edu local government area of the state. The  state commissioner for Works and Transport, Alhaji Aro Yahaya made this known while inspecting the collapsed bridge along Tsaragi-Shonga with a team of Engineers. He assured that the bridges will be reconstructed as soon as possible in line with Governor Ahmed’s directive. He appealed to residents and commuters plying the routes to exercise patience with the government, saying that construction works would commence on the roads and culverts in earnest. Yahaya assured the people of the areas that the reconstruction of the roads and culverts will be completed on schedule. The commissioner praised Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed for his concern for the wellbeing of the people and commuters, which he noted, prompted the governor’s marching order on the reconstruction of the roads and culverts in the two localities.