Reprieve has come the way of  people of Adanna community and its environ in Ajikobi ward of Ilorin West local government area of Kwara state as the Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki donated a 500KVA transformer to the community. Residents of the benefitting community and its environ had been plunged into total darkness over eleven months ago when the transformer supplying electricity to the densely populated area got damaged. Saraki had about a month ago during a sympathy visit to victims of a devastating flood disaster in Abata- Asunkere- Ode- Adanna area of Ilorin metropolis, upon request by the community pledged to donate a new transformer to the community in order to improve the socio- economics life of residents of the area. He, equally bankrolled the installation of the transformer which has more carrying capacity than the damaged one. It was a promise fulfilled yesterday ( Sunday) when the Director General of the ABS Mandate Constituency Office, Ilorin, Alh Musa Abdullahi handed over the transformer to the representatives of the community at a brief ceremony at the constituency office complex in Ilorin. Abdullahi said yesterday’s presentation of the transformer was in fulfilment of the pledge of the Senate President when he visited Abata- Asunkere to commiserate with flood victims recently. “It will be recalled that during the sympathy visit to the flood victims in Abata- Asunkere and Ode- Adanna community by the Senate President, residents of the community sought the assistance of the Senate President on the provision of a new transformer for their community. “ In response to their request, the Senate President mandated his constituency office to procure and install 500KVA transformer as a matter of urgency. It is on this note that I have the singular honour and privilege to present the transformer to Ode Adanna community. Our leader has also directed us to foot the bill for the installation of the transformer. “ Responding, the Imam of  Ode Adanna, Alh Mashood Yakub Ode Adanna, said their joy knew no bounds over the donation of the transformer to their community, pointing out that “ we have been in total darkness for more than eleven months”. “ We thank the Senate President for fulfilling his promise not to only give us a transformer but to also install it.” The secretary of Ode Adanna community development association , Musa Alawuyan, also hailed  Saraki “for fulfilling his pledge to the community in less than a month.”