The presidency has dismissed a newspaper report which claimed that  there was international pressure on President Muhammadu Buhari to abandon his quest for a second term in next year’s presidential  election. A statement by the special adviser on media to the president, Femi Adesina, dismissed as fictional the story with the headline, ‘Pressure Mounts on Buhari not to Seek Re-election,’ by a national daily (not LEADERSHIP) which claimed that  foreign powers, including the European Union, United States of America, the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia, are putting pressure on President Buhari not to seek re-election due to some ‘concocted reasons’. Adesina said, “If there are quarters in which President Buhari is held in very high esteem and the work he is doing for Nigeria highly lauded, it is in the countries mentioned. “Some of them are equally bastions of democracy, and will not interfere in the democratic affairs of a sovereign country. The newspaper should simply tell its story to the marines.” The presidential spokesman pointed out that President Buhari was not a frivolous individual, but that he gave deep thought to the prospect before announcing his bid for a second term in office. He stated that it was only those who feared that the president would floor them if they came up against him at the polls that were trying to dissuade him from running by all means, including sponsoring false newspaper stories. Adesina described the report as a discredit to the newspaper that carried such a story. “We thought fake news was the sole preserve of the social media in this season. Alas, a traditional medium has caught the bug. Obviously, the author of the story just got a brain wave, or got procured by anti-democratic elements, and then penned the mischief,” he added. …Says 2018 Electoral Bill Not Dead Contrary to media reports that the 2018 Electoral Bill passed by the National Assembly on July 24, 2018, and forwarded to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent on August 3 was vetoed, the Presidency yesterday said the Bill was alive and awaiting the president’s assent. While confirming the status of the Bill in a media chat in his office, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, said the vetoed bill was the one sent to the President on June 7,  2018, and not the one passed by both chambers of the National Assembly on July 24, 2018, the very day it embarked on a long recess. According to him, the vetoed one was the one with contentious provisions and infractions on provisions of the 1999 constitution. “The reported vetoed bill was the one passed by the National Assembly and transmitted to the president for assent on the 27th of June 2018, the duration of which, in line with constitutional provisions, expires on the 26th of July, 2018, warranting the said veto. ” Yes, an electoral bill was vetoed or refused assent by the president but not the last version of the 2018 Electoral Bill transmitted to the president for assent on the 3rd of this month, that has just spent 11 days on his table and still has 19 days more for possible consideration and assent, ” he explained. LEADERSHIP recalls that, aside the vetoed version of the 2018 electoral bill forwarded to the president on June 27, 2018 and vetoed on July, 26, 2018 by the president in line with the 30-day constitutional timeline for such bill, the President had earlier in the year rejected the first of the 2010 Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018 forwarded to it in February this year. President Buhari had in vetoing the earlier one in February this year cited three reasons for doing so, one of which was the new sequence of elections included in the bill through section 25(1).