A 29-year man, Taiwo Ajibola, arrested by Operatives of Lagos State Police command for allegedly attempting to kill his mother for ritual purposes in Ayobo area of Lagos State stunned the law enforcement officers when he said a spiritualist instructed him to carry out the dastardly act to become rich. Our correspondent gathered that gory sight of the helpless mother whose face and skull was badly battered by her son in his morbid attempt to advance his cyber fraud business through ritual sacrifice amazed the residents. LEADERSHIP reliably learnt that the incident happened at No.2 Raji Ajanaku Street, Alaja Road, Ayobo, Lagos at About 0830hours inside the apartment of the suspect, Taiwo Akinola who lived with his mother, Mrs Alice Iyabo Akinola and her 14-year old grandchild Master Faruk. Family source said the suspect, a staunch member of the notorious Aiye confraternity, in a carefully thought out plans to kill his mother went to the victim’s Provision store in front of their apartment and told his mother to meet him inside the house for an important discussion and at same time sent his nephew, Faruk to go buy him a white handkerchief and a stick of cigarette. As soon as the victim entered the house, the suspect was said to have attacked her, smashing her head with a plank, pressing iron and a UPS charger to ensure she didn’t survive the ferocious attack. When Faruk returned from the errand, he didn’t see his grandmother in the shop so he went into the house only to see the poor woman lying in a pool of blood. Shocked by what he saw, the small boy raised the alarm which attracted neighbours to the scene. They called the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ayobo Division who arrived the scene with his team who promptly arrested the suspect and secured the scene for further investigation by the police forensic experts attached to the Homicide section SCIID Panti, Yaba. The victim said to be in coma was rushed to an undisclosed hospital where the doctors are battling to save her life. During a brief interrogation, the suspect confessed that he was asked to kill his mother by a spiritualist n order to have more money through his internet fraud trade. He said, “It is devil’s work. A spiritualist told me to kill my mother to make money and become rich.” When his room was searched, two calabashes with one containing human skull and the other, a mixture of dark concoction; a plank perforated with nails that was stained with blood were recovered inside his room as exhibits. Confirming the incident, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi urged Lagosians to rise against all forms of crime and criminality. He added that the Command defeated the Badoo cult group with the help of the people who provided credible and timely information to the police. The Commissioner said, “The time has come to root out the street cult groups. Complacency is not an option in the face of threat to peace and security posed by these nefarious associations.’’ 