The Kogi state government is set to clear outstanding salary arrears of workers in the state within the next three months. The state commissioner for Finance, Asiwaju Ashiru Idris who disclosed this also hinted that workers and pensioners claiming to have been owed for upwards of 20 months salaries and pensions were those who are not on the cleared list and no longer in government pay roll. Idris described as malicious claims that government was owing workers and pensioners more than 20 months salary arrears. “All the cleared civil servants whose names appeared on pay roll have received their salaries up till April 2018, while the pensioners have received their pensions up till February this year”. Commissioner Ashiru stated. He lamented that those civil servants claiming that state government is owing as much as 20 months are not being fair to the government noting that Governor Yahaya Bello was so magnanimous by pardoning several workers after the appeal, stating he had assured them that their outstanding salary would be paid in due course. The commissioner also admitted that the debt profile was N102 billion, stressing that this comprises of the N33billion debt inherited from the previous administration, 3 months unpaid salaries from last administration, unpaid salaries, pension, unpaid leave allowances and so on. Idris said that government had mapped out plans to ensure that all the outstanding salaries of workers and pensioners are paid in the next 90 days. He further hinted that Kogi Rice production and the Rice Mill will soon be commissioned noting that last year the State government cultivated 400 hectares , pointing out that 800 hectares have been cultivated in the current farming season. He disclosed that the state internally generated revenue had improved tremendously, affirming that government had initiated a good number of ongoing projects spread across the three senatorial districts of the state. He added that the state government is set to construct 500 kilometres of roads across the state.