Immediate past governor of Sokoto State and chairman, Northern Senators Forum, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko said yesterday that he was shocked by governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal’s decision to dump the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Tambuwal succeeded Senator Wamakko as governor of Sokoto State in 2015. Wamakko, said that Tambuwal’s defection has nothing to do with the state APC added that, the people’s resolve to queue behind President Muhammadu Buhari come 2019 still stands. According to him, let nobody thinks Tambuwal’s defection will affects the state’s political direction, hence Sokoto remained solidly an APC state. Wamakko, in a statement signed by his media aide, Bashir Rabe Mani said, despite 18 House of Assembly and another 4 House of Representatives members decided to go with Tambuwal to the PDP, that doesn’t count in anyway as far as Sokoto and PMB was concerned. The Senator who is also the Senate Committee chairman on Basic and Secondary Education, noted that both himself, the state deputy governor, Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu, Senator Ibrahim Gobir, 7 House of Representatives Members plus 12 House of Assembly Members as well as Sokoto electorate are all for APC. “The people of the state are also solidly behind me, other Senators, other House of Representatives Members and elders have chosen to remain in the APC. ‘’Whatever crowd you might have seen or told, just take it as a mere story. “As a matter of principle, it is not in my character to abuse people, but what I am assuring is that, Sokoto State is an APC state.’’ While assuring that Nigerians will see how APC owns Sokoto’s politics, Wamakko said, there was nothing to worry about Tambuwal’s defection from the APC. To Tambuwal he said, “But, I pity my younger brother, governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. He is a very promising young politician, with full potentials. ‘’However, may be something else is guiding his decision. This is the worst decision he has taken in his life. ‘’At his age, he should not be in a hurry. He is a fine young politician, I have a lot of respect for him. ‘’If he had taken the consideration of the people he is representing, the people of Sokoto State, he should not have gone into the PDP,’’ Wamakko noted. The Senator who wondered what must have informed Tambuwal’s decision when PDP still remained what it was before their collective exit in 2015, said, he hoped the governor rescind on his decision and return back to APC before its late. Wamakko said, despite the recent gale of defections at the National Assembly, APC still retain its majority status at both chambers of the National Assembly. He further stressed that the defection would only compel APC to go back to the drawing board and come out stronger as most of those that defected are already thinking of how to come back. ‘’That is the beauty of democracy. People should be given the freedom to be where they want to be. It is nothing unusual, ‘’ Wamakko added.