Mild drama played out yesterday in Sokoto State as no fewer than 252 political appointees resigned from the Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal-led administration. Although the State government claimed that the appointees, prior to their resignation, were shown the way out of the state service to enable them engage in politics properly, the appointees insisted that they voluntarily resigned because they don’t want to join PDP with Tambuwal who recently defected. A statement by the governor’s director general, Media and Public Affairs, Abu Shekara, confirmed that Tambuwal has directed the termination of the appointment of the affected special assistants from the service of the state. Abu Shekara said the governor sacked the former appointees to enable them engage in partisan politics without ethical or moral dilemma. But the affected appointees in a press conference however said they were no longer at ease working in Tambuwal’s government. Speaking on behalf of the 252 appointees, Alhaji Ibrahim Dasuki Haske, said they resigned their appointments because they are not ready to defect to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with Tambuwal. He said,  “From today, we have resigned our appointments as special advisers and assistants from the administration of governor Aminu Tambuwal. We have nothing to do with the PDP government because we were appointed as members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), of which we are still members.” On his part,  Bello Maijama’a said they remain bonafide members of the APC because Tambuwal’s administration had done nothing to deserve their loyalty. “Our reason for remaining in the APC and resigning from our positions is that the Tambuwal administration is something we cannot pride ourselves to be servants of. His administration is as good as non-existent because the people of Sokoto State have not felt any existence of governance.” In his reaction to the resignation, Sokoto State APC chairman, Alhaji Isa Achida, said the action of the former appointees could only be taken by advocates of development. “I am happy for your decision to beat hypocrisy and fear. For you to forfeit your monthly income and follow your conscience it shows that you have overcome  fear. I extend the commendation of the APC to you. I also confirm to you that the party will reward you for this decision. This action displays your respect and loyalty for the APC,” he said.