Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah said yesterday that the gale of defection from party A to party B and defection along same line witnessed lately in Nigeria was simply but an indication that the nation still have a long way to go as far as good governance is concerned. Bishop Kukah who warned that nobody should expect any politician turning Nigeria to paradise, added that, only God is perfect and can do the unimaginable. Speaking in an interview after conducting mass wedding for 7 couple at St Dominic Catholic Church, Birnin Kebbi during his usual annual pastoral visitation, Bishop Kukah said true change can only come from God and not any mortal. “What I am saying is that change comes from God and not from any human being. And we will continue to be disappointed with every election because that is the way life is. “Though, the disappointment is not really a bad thing. It is an opportunity for us to learn lessons. And all I am saying is that people should not really expect that whether they vote out an old government and vote in a new one,  the problems of our country will now just go away. “The point I am making is that we should never surrender to people in totally the responsibility of how our country will grow, because that is why God has given us hands,  eyes and all the tools. “Therefore, we cannot ask God to help our country and we are not prepared to go out and get our PVC’s to be able to deal with what needed to be done.” When asked on rating President Muhammadu Buhari and the recent gale of defection in the nation’s politics, Bishop Kukah said, defection still remain a normal thing for Nigerian politician. He however expressed concern over what purpose will the defection serve if it is for same rotation of the nation’s wealth in the hands of few and the masses continue to suffer. “President Muhammadu Buhari is the leader of the country for now. It does not matter what anybody thinks. Whether you like him or not, he is the President of Nigeria at the moment. “But the reality is whether people defects from one party or not, they are still defecting within the same pool of corruption. “No Nigerian politician has defected outside this pool. It is a defection within same very corrupt poll where they have defecated and urinated and spoilt that they are dancing back to or defecting from.”