All presidential aspirants of the People Democratic Party (PDP) are to sign an undertaking not to work against any of them that eventually emerges candidate of the party.  Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who is one of the party’s presidential aspirants, disclosed this to journalists in Minna yesterday at the Niger State PDP secretariat where he went to consult with the delegates and party leaders in the state ahead of the presidential primaries of the party. On the speculation that PDP presidential aspirants in PDP may sign a bond not to work against any aspirant who emerges the party’s presidential candidate, he said, “This issue came up last night (Wednesday night) when we had our first meeting with members of the national working committee (NWC) of the party. “It was agreed that before the conduct of the primaries, there will be more meetings and in one of those meetings we will be required to sign an under taking to support whoever may emerge as the candidate of the party. “We were also assured that transparent and credible primaries will be conducted by the party. These are some of the issues we discussed last night”. Noting that he has always supported candidates of his party, the former vice president noted: “First and foremost I have participated in a number of presidential primaries at the end of the primaries I have always committed myself to supporting whoever emerged and I have done so. I don’t think it is going to be a different case this time around”. Atiku further said his interest in the presidency is not for selfish reasons, adding that it is borne out of the bid to offer selfless service to the nation, which is what had motivated him to come out and contest severally for the presidency. On why he is pushing so hard to be president of Nigeria, he said, “I have always been motivated by service to the nation and not for selfish reason. There is no question of me pushing so hard. If I am strong enough and healthy enough, why not continue to offer my services to the country.  “I do not think I will like to be anybody else other than a Nigerian. The country has been good to me and I will continue to offer my service to the country. That is my main motivation and it is not motivated by selfishness”. .