Uneasy calm weekend pervaded Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), following dis-enchanment among leaders of the party in the state over what they described as Governor Godwin Obaseki’s seeming abandonment of the party’s loyalists after his election as governor. There are however plans by the immediate past governor of the state and National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to hold an enlarged meeting with leaders of the party with a view to finding solution to the problem, this week. It was learnt that the APC boss is scheduling the meeting following threats by majority of the leadership of the party across the three senatorial districts to defect to other opposition parties. Oshiomhole, who was received by a mammoth crowd at the Benin Airport last Friday, the first time he was visiting the state after his emergence as National chairman of the APC, begged the waiting crowd to be calm, assuring that “I am aware of all your complaints but I can assure that you cannot be used and dumped”. It was gathered that on arrival, APC leaders stormed Oshiomhole’s residence to inform him of how the party in the state had abandoned and humiliated them, even as they informed him of their plans to leave the party if he fails to call the governor to order. A top party leader who confirmed the meeting said It will take place on Thursday this week, adding that “this meeting will shape the future of APC In Edo State, because everybody is tired and angry. Most people have remained in the party because of Oshiomhole who is our leader. “He brought Obaseki to us to support him and now all he built is being destroyed by the government he put in place. So, we are hoping he will solve the problem so that APC will win this state in the next election and even in the governorship election in 2020”, the source stated. Recall that a chieftain of the party in the state, Charles Idahosa, resigned form party activities last May over what he described as the attitude of the governor towards party leaders in the state. Besides, a leader of the party  and former Council Chairman in Ikpoba Okha local government area, Mrs Itohan Osahon Ogbeide, last May also defected to the PDP. Also, a former youth leader of the party in Edo South, Tony Adun, ciring a press conference criticized the policies and programmes of the Obaseki-led administration, citing marginalization  and neglect of party members who worked for the success of the APC in 2016. He accused the governor of awarding contracts to his friends from Lagos State while indigenous contractors in the state were allegedly abandoned. He therefore warned that if those issues are not addressed, the party stands the risk of losing the next general elections in the state.