The chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, yesterday said youths with their population could determine the outcome of the 2019 general elections. He also revealed that the Osun State governorship election slated for September 22 would feature the highest number of contestants in the history of governorship elections in Nigeria so far. Speaking during a courtesy visit to the management of Bayero University, Kano (BUK), which is hosting the INEC Youth Votes Count Campus Outreach Initiative on August 6, Prof. Yakubu revealed that judging from the figures emanating from the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise, coupled with the voting pattern noticed in the 2015 general elections, Nigerian youths currently constitute a sizeable percentage of the total population of registered voters that could be a game changer in the 2019 polls. He averred that since the commencement of the CVR exercise in April 2017, the commission had registered close to 11million Nigerians. “By the time we suspend the CVR exercise on August 17, the number of registered voters will be well over 11 million. If we add this to the existing Voter Register of 70 million, and by the time we go into the 2019 general elections, we would have had over 80 million voters,” he said. He continued: “From what we are seeing so far (in the ongoing CVR), 2019 is going to be the year of the youth. Quite a large number of those that have registered to vote are the youth, meaning the young boys and girls between the ages of 18 and 35. When we did the analysis of the 2015 presidential election results, the youth also played a very important role. “So, we are here (Bayero University) to continue to encourage them. We have already announced the date for the suspension of the CVR, which is August 17. We have been registering eligible Nigerians for the last 16 months (since April 27, 2017). On the Osun State governorship election, Prof. Yakubu said that 48 political parties were fielding a record number of 48 candidates for one position, the highest so far in any governorship election conducted by INEC in the country. He said, “we had 37 candidates for Anambra and 35 for Ekiti governorship elections, but Osun has beaten them all.” He said that while the Commission had already registered 68 political parties, it is currently processing over 130 applications from associations seeking registration as political parties. He said: “Our projection is that we might end up with 80 to 85 political parties. If half of them nominate candidates, we may end up with 46,000 candidates for the 2019 general elections.” The INEC chairman also revealed that since the 2015 general elections, the Commission had conducted elections into 182 constituencies. “These elections have helped us to improve our processes and sharpen our skills”,he said. Responding, the Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Mohammed Bello thanked INEC  for choosing Bayero university for the zonal engagement event,saying it shows the confidence  the eloctoral body had in them while assuring that “we will do whatever we can to give you support on this”.