The chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Kaduna State Chapter, Mr Emmanuel Jakada, has described as null and void the so called suspension of the Senator representing Kaduna Central, Senator Shehu Sani, saying it did not follow the constitutional provisions. In the same vein, the substantive APC executives in Ward Six (6) Tudun Wada has also said the suspension is a sponsored activity by a political figure in the state who wants to at all cost and by all means occupy the Senators seat. It would be recalled that a statement signed by one Ward Six chairman, Ibrahim Salisu Togo, Tudun Wada North chapter of APC insisted that their decision to suspend Senator Sani was based on the constitution of the party. According to their statement, “We, the Tudun Wada North, Ward Six Exco of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna South local government area wish to affirm our decision on the indefinite suspension of Senator Shehu Sani.”
Meanwhile, the state chairman when contacted on phone, said that a serving Senator cannot be suspended on the pages of newspapers or through press statements.
In his reaction, further said, “I am not around, I came for a programme in Jos. Look, suspension does not come from the pages of newspapers. However, at the local government, there must be a Committee to find out the allegations. There are a lot of constitutional processes to be followed before you can pronounce somebody suspended. “As the chairman, I have set up Committee to reconcile the aggrieved members so I expected that if there was any issue with any of the aggrieved member it is supposed to be directed to the Reconciliation Committee. “I’m so surprised that I am hearing this from you people, I have not seen anything like that on my table. I don’t believe that the right thing according to the constitution has been done.” Responding to the suspension, the special adviser Media/Special Duties to the Senator Abdusamad C. Amadi said, “It is rather unfortunate that these people are allowing themselves to be used by this desperate governor’s aide, to frustrate the efforts of the new APC National Leadership and President Buhari to bring sanity to the party. We are not totally surprised by this despicable act as it was an open secret that the Kaduna State government was never in support of Comrade Oshiomhole’s ascension to the leadership of our great Party. “The decision by Sen Shehu Sani to remain in the APC amidst the mass defections is a decision that has been highly appreciated by the President and the National Leadership of the APC. Also President Buhari and the entire Leadership of the APC have on numerous occasions openly affirmed their confidence and trust in Senator Shehu Sani as a high-profile stakeholder and bonafide member of the APC whom they hold in very high esteem.”