The federal government has said that the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) has completed the separation of Christian Religious Studies Curriculum and Islamic Studies Curriculum. The decision was taken at the 63rd meeting of the National Council on Education (NCE), held at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, from Wednesday 1st to Thursday 2nd August, 2018 which was presided over by the minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu and supported by the minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Gozie Anwukah. Other members of the council were the Deputy Governor and Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Kano State, Prof. Hafiz Abubakar, Commissioners for Education and the FCT Education Secretary. The theme of the meeting was “Funding of Education for the Achievement of Education 2030 Agenda”. The Ministerial Session was preceded by a two-day Officials’ Session under the chairmanship of the permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Arc. Sonny S.T. Echono, held at the NICON Luxury Hotel, Abuja and supported by the director, Educational Planning, Research and Development (EPR&D), Federal Ministry of Education, Dr. (Mrs.) Chioma C.J. Nwadei. In a communiqué issued yesterday, the council after extensive deliberations on all the Memoranda presented to it and other issues on how to improve Nigeria’s education sector, noted that the NERDC has completed the separation of Christian Religious Studies (CRS) Curriculum and Islamic Studies (IS) Curriculum from Religion and National Values Curriculum.
The council added that critical stakeholders like the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), and the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, among others, were involved in the separation process.
It also lamented that the Chibok girls and the recent Dapchi girls kidnapping are pointers to the unsafe nature of our schools for teaching and learning, adding that there are no standard measures for schools to adopt in relation to safety and security of schools. The council also said that there is an urgent need to augment the services of uniformed security officers in our schools with other security measures such as establishment of Vigilante group and community neighborhood watch.
It further stressed the importance of introducing Entrepreneurial and Enterprise Fair as an alternative source of funding for schools in all the states of the federation including the FCT.
The council similarly urged states and the FCT to establish an accountable mechanism within the public service for the management of State Education Development Fund (SEDFund) and liaise with relevant agencies such as States Inland Revenue Services to work out the modalities for achieving the objective of the SEDFund.