The gale of defection from the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) to the main opposition party the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other parties has been described as a strategic plan by enemies of Ndigbo to ensure that the presidency eludes the Southeast come 2023. In a reaction to the gale of defection across the country from the governing party, a chieftain of the APC in Imo State, Prince Anthony Chyma, in a press statement issued to the media yesterday in Abuja said a calculated attempt is being made to thwart the chances of President Muhammudu Buhari from handing over power to a candidate from the southeast come 2023. “The gale of defection is a strategic plan by enemies of Ndigbo to ensure that the presidency eludes the Southeast come 2023. I call on all well meaning Ndigbo to lend their support to President Mahammudu Buhari to reciprocate his kind gesture of supporting the Southeast come 2023 for Nigerian President. “Enough of sectional politics for Ndigbo. Can we ask ourselves why the Southeast people are rather joining APC instead of defecting, those defectors are out to frustrating the plans of an Ndigbo man being president in the next dispensation. “This is our chance now. We should not be deceived by the antics of anti Southeast politicians who would rather die than see a man from the region become the President of Nigeria. “Those preaching restructuring are playing on your intelligence. Can they preach it in their regions which definitely does not support such ambiguous claim? I enjoin our great leaders to jettison the call for restructuring which was coined to deceive the people of the Southeast,” Chyma said. He stated that the defectors only agenda is to frustrate President Buhari’s plan for a Southeast presidency in 2023. Meanwhile, the APC chieftain commended governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State for placing a N20 million naira bounty on killers of the APC newly elected Ideato North local government area chairman, Mr Sunny Ejiagwu, who was murdered just four days after his election as chairman of the party recently. “Imolites are not known for horrible act as political killings, it’s strange to us in the state and must be condemned by all sane mind in the state. The security agencies must ensure justice is served to killers of Mr Ejiagwu,” he said. 