The Gombe State governor, Dr. Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, has expressed confidence that he will emerge the 2019 presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The governor who further declared that his decision to run for president is about Nigeria, stressed that of all the aspirants to the office of president from all the political parties, he alone can boast of governing a state that is a true reflection of the diversity of the country. Dankwambo who declared his ambition to contest the 2019 presidential election barely two weeks ago, was reacting to a report that he is under pressure to drop his ambition. The report emerged against the backdrop of the recent visit of the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal to Dankwambo in Gombe. But responding through his special assistant on Media, Junaidu Usman, the governor said, “The Dankwambo presidential project is all about Nigeria. He is a proven achiever who has all it takes to get Nigeria out of the clutches of darkness it has been forced into. “We are positive that not only will Dankwambo emerge the presidential flag bearer of the PDP, but will also be overwhelmingly voted for by generality of Nigerians in the next presidential election. It remains the only realistic way to save the drifting Nigerian project with the needed dispatch.” He added, “In Nigeria’s contemporary history, of all the aspirants to the office of president, from all the political parties, only Dankwambo can boast of governing a state that is a true reflection of the diversity of the Nigerian nation. Gombe is as heterogeneous as Nigeria itself. Yet, there is no farmers-herders clash. “Gombe has since earned the moniker of being the safest state in the entire north-eastern plank of the country. All segments of Gombe society have been accorded a clear sense of belonging by Governor Dankwambo, such that religious and tribal tolerance in Gombe is the highest of all the other 35 states of the federation.” The governor added that in a country that keeps getting polarised along primordial lines, only a tested and trusted leader, who has succeeded in managing diversities and welding fractious lines should be supported to be the next president of the country. “It is for that reason, alongside the unprecedented achievements recorded by Dankwambo, that Nigerians from all walks of life succeeded in mounting enough pressure on Dankwambo to accept to throw his hat into the ring. As an economist of no mean repute, and with all humility the most educated of all the aspirants, only a sick mind could conjure the image of Dankwambo stepping down for anyone,” he added. Dankwambo revealed that he enjoys a good relationship with Tambuwal, hence the visit by his Sokoto State counterpart to Gombe State, adding that it is a normal practice for friendly governors to invite each other to commission projects executed by their administrations. “Such is the closeness between Dankwambo and Tambuwal that the Gombe Governor went a step further to name an important street in the state capital after the Sokoto Governor. “If anything, that should have been appreciated as yet another proof of Governor Dankwambo’s trademark policy of politics without bitterness, which he has been exhibiting since his assumption of office seven years ago; and which has seen his administration recording unprecedented achievements across all sectors of development,” he noted.