As government pushes for stronger liquefied petroleum gas, LPG utilisation through various incentives, the presidency has disclosed that the nation’s gas market is set to attract about $20 billion (N7.2trillion) in investments. The LPG, also known as cooking gas is a cleaner, healthier and more efficient fuel which, apart from the initial set up, is cheaper than kerosene and has a controllable flame which is useable instantaneously, making it more time efficient. Speaking with our correspondent on the expectations in the sector following the removal of Value Added Tax (VAT) on locally produced LPG, programme manager, National LPG Expansion Intervention in the office of the vice president, Mr. Dayo Adesina, said that aside the VAT removal, government was introducing more incentives that would help grow and harness potentials in the industry. Adesina projected that Nigeria would experience massive investments in the sector that would net about $20billion (N7.2trillion). However, he said the entire value chain would be reorganised to accommodate the volume of projected growth that the ongoing reforms would engender. According to him,  in 2017, domestic consumption of LPG was 580,000 tons, but going by the federal government’s five-year strategic plan, demand would  soon reach 5million tons may reach 1.5 million tons by 2020. He also noted that deregulation of the sector has encouraged intervention of the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) in the supply market towards realising full market potentials. LEADERSHIP also reports that the new government policy, unveiled by the vice-president this year, is planning for 4 million households to convert to LPG over the next two years, 10 million households within five years, and 21 million households over the next 20 years, from approximately 2.5 million now. Since around 2007 till now, LPG demand/supply market in Nigeria has grown from a mere 70,000 tons per annum market to over 600,000 tons per annum, pulling along with it, massive investments in LPG infrastructure along the value chain. LEADERSHIP recalls that the controversies surrounding the issue of Value Added Tax (VAT) placed on LPG locally- produced from the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas company (NLNG) against imported LPG has been resolved and the tariff removed by the federal government. The VAT imposed on the LPG from Nigeria LNG has made the product more costly than the one imported from a country like Equatorial Guinea. Executive director, Commercial, Petroleum Products Marketing Company, (PPMC), Billy Okoye, while   speaking at the annual general meeting of the Nigerian Association of LPG Marketers in Lagos,  said the issue of VAT on LPG from Nigeria LNG has been dealt with. President of the association, Nosa Ogieva-Okunbor, while distributing about 500 cylinders free of charge to some consumers in Lagos, said it was imperative to develop effective policies to encourage investors to come into the LPG sector to deepen market penetration, boost the country’s economy and protect the environment. He commended  the government for setting up a committee to look at the issue of  VAT  on  locally – produced  LPG  which  he said has  made  the   product out of  the reach of  consumers The price of 12.5 kg cylinder of cooking gas has increased from N 3, 800 to N4,000. Similarly, the price of 6kg cylinder has increased from N 7, 900 to N 8,500, and 3kg from N 3, 200 to N 3,700. According to him, the price of 20 metric tonnes (about 35,000 litres) of the LPG, which was N4 million has been increased to N4.6 million Ogieva-Okunbor said the removal of VAT on the gas supplied to marketers by the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) would attract more investors and reduce importation of gas into the country, which is VAT free.