A splinter group from African Democratic Congress (ADC) led by ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, called the New African Democratic Congress (N-ADC) has merged with the Advanced Peoples Democratic Alliance (APDA) to form a new party, Advanced Republicans (AR). The N-ADC pulled out of the ADC last Tuesday, accusing its leadership of derailing from the original vision of the party. The national chairman of APDA, Shittu Mohammed, and his N-ADC counterpart, Chief Precious Elekima, signed the merger pact at a joint meeting. They also agreed that the chairman of APDA would be the leader of the new party, while the chairman of the N-ADC would be his deputy. Speaking after the pact was signed, Mohammed said the merger was a union of like minds and forces poised to rescue Nigeria through the 2019 general election. He said, “For us in APDA, we believe that in order to take Nigerians out of the woods, forces of like minds must come together. Ours is like minds, which have the same nationalistic ideology where Nigeria comes first – national interest before personal interest. “Our interest is to see that Nigeria’s movement from nascent democracy to development democracy – democracy where we do not just talk about elections but about economic development, advancement in technology and welfare of Nigerians. “Our concern also includes creating employment opportunities for the people and taking government to the grassroots. “This is why today, you have the `marriage’ of N-ADC and APDA, both dissolving and fusing to work for the development of Nigeria. “This is how other parties like defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) started and they got to the limelight. We believe that with this `marriage’ today we are taking Nigeria to a great height,” he said. Elekima added that the merger was between two parties with strong political bases in the Southern and Northern parts of the country. He boasted that the political marriage will strengthen the party to win elections. “This is what happened in 1914 when the North and the South came together to form one Nigeria. “Today a northern based party and a southern based party have come together to make a national party and that party will win elections. “We are happy to say that N-ADC and APDA have agreed and our name will be Advanced Republicans. We have been able to fuse as one body and we will work together,” Ekelima said. He said that the merger decision had been communicated to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for regulations of APDA details, adding that “INEC has graciously agreed that APDA should be changed to AR”.