Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said God has taken control of the affairs of Bayelsa State and its people in view of its past history of being dreaded for militancy and insecurity.
Chief Obasanjo, who stated this during the state’s monthly thanksgiving Service at the King of Glory Chapel, Government House, Yenagoa, urged leaders especially Governors who want to do well in their states to come to Bayelsa to learn the secret of Governor Seriake Dickson’s success.
In a statement by the chief press secretary to the governor, Mr. Francis Ottah-Agbo, the elder statesman expressed appreciation to God for giving the Governor the spirit of praise and thanksgiving. According to Chief Obasanjo, nothing is more important than man’s relationship with God, adding that it is obvious for all to see that the peace of God is in the state.
“I want to thank God for the life of Governor Seriake Dickson, for doing this to honour God. This is what happens when you put God first. All other things happen the way God has ordained them to happen.
The peace of God is here. Bayelsa used to be dreaded for militancy and insecurity and now people are asking what is happening in Bayelsa State. If you are a Governor and you want to do well, come to Bayelsa and learn the secret.
In his remark, Governor Dickson thanked former President Obasanjo for being an instrument in the hand of God., saying God is the state’s source of strength while recalling that despite the 2016 recession that hit the country, his administration has continued to break the frontiers in the health, education, infrastructure sectors among others. Governor Dickson, who stressed that Bayelsa is the only state with a Thanksgiving Law in the country, explained that he emulated the former President by building an Ecumenical Centre for the worship of God in the state, appointing clergymen, holding morning devotion and state memory verse. He said the state had gone ahead of others in terms of infrastructural and economic development, with a bright prospect of surpassing all others in the country and called for continued prayers, understanding and support for the state, it’s leadership and the country at large. “Bayelsa is indeed a blessed state. God is our source of strength. Our state has gone ahead of most states and very soon all the states. It is the safest and most secured . In a sermon entitled “The Force Of Praise”, Chaplain of King of Glory Chapel, Government House, Reverend Doutimi Egbegi , listed the benefits of praising God to include, making God one’s shield, dancing with God and restoration. Reverend Egbegi hinged Bayelsa state’s achievements on Governor Dickson’s fear of God and constant praise to God, adding that God stands with his people and is moved greatly when praised.