Palpably angered by what he described as acts that are capable of undermining democracy in the country, Acting President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday ordered the sack of director general of Department of State Services (DSS), Lawal Musa Daura. Accordingly, the vice president who said the termination of Daura’s appointment was with immediate effect directed the erstwhile DG to hand over to the most senior officer of the DSS, Mr Mathew Seiyefa, an indigene of Bayelsa State, until further notice. Daura’s ouster followed the invasion of the National Assembly by operatives of the DSS who scuttled yesterday’s emergency meeting of the joint leadership of the National Assembly convened to consider for possible approval, the N242 billion budgeted for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct the 2019 general election. The action of the DSS official was said to have embarrassed the presidency, which felt it was time to wield the big stick to stop further embarrassment of the Buhari administration. In a statement issued by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, Acting President Osinbajo described the unauthorized takeover of the National Assembly complex as a gross violation of constitutional order, rule of law and all acceptable notions of law and order. According to him, the unlawful act, which was done without the knowledge of the presidency, is condemnable and completely unacceptable. The VP further noted that by this statement, he is “consequently assuring Nigerians that all persons within the law enforcement apparatus who participated in this travesty will be identified and subjected to appropriate disciplinary action”. Meanwhile, the situation at the DSS headquarters yesterday evening after Daura’s sack remained calm, as operatives of the secret police were seen going about their duties. However, no one was willing to confirm if Daura had indeed handed over to the most senior staff of the agency, Mathew Seiyefa. INEC Budget Suffers Setback As Senate President Postpones Meeting Meanwhile, the approval of the N242 billion budgeted for the INEC and security agencies to conduct the 2019 general election has suffered a major setback as Senate President Bukola Saraki yesterday postponed the emergency meeting of the joint leadership of the National Assembly. A joint statement signed by Saraki and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara explained that the meeting was postponed indefinitely because the safety of the members from both chambers expected at the meeting could no longer be guaranteed. In the statement titled, ‘Aftermath of DSS Invasion of NASS Complex: Saraki, Dogara Postpone Leadership Meeting’, the duo said their decision followed the invasion of the National Assembly complex by men of the Department of State Services (DSS) in which legislators and members of staff were harassed and prevented from accessing their offices. “Following this unpleasant development, the joint leadership meeting slated for this afternoon has been postponed till further notice because under the prevailing circumstances, we cannot guarantee the safety of the 20 members from both chambers expected at the meeting”, Saraki and Dogara stated. President Muhammadu Buhari had before the National Assembly went on its ongoing recess last month forwarded for legislative approval N242billion budget estimates from INEC and security agencies for conduct of the 2019 elections. Due to exigencies of the request and pressure mounted on the National Assembly to reconvene, Saraki summoned emergency meeting of joint leadership of the two chambers for possible reconvening of sittings of both chambers this month for consideration and approval of the   N242bn budgeted for conduct of the elections. But as early as 6:00am yesterday, DSS operatives condoned off the National Assembly, preventing the legislators, staff of the National Assembly and journalists from gaining entrance into the legislative premises. Miffed by the development, Clerk of the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori, refused to enter the premises of the complex on the ground that members of his staff were denied entrance to their offices. When he arrived the National Assembly gate, Sani-Omolori confronted the DSS operatives on why his staff and others were being denied access to the National Assembly complex, and they replied that they were acting on orders from above. The Clerk angrily turned back, saying he would not enter when members of his staff were outside. He told the staff and journalists that he was not aware of what was going on, but that they should remain calm and law-abiding. “He is telling me they have security issues. I don’t know wat this is. Even if I enter, how will I work without my staff?” The Clerk queried, just as he drove off in his vehicle. Meanwhile, in a show of unflinching support for Saraki and his deputy, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, 49 PDP Senators signed list of confidence in person and by telephone services for the duo. This is just as some House of Representatives members, including Deputy Speaker Yusuf Lasun were in the Senate lobby in solidarity for Saraki and Ekweremadu. Saraki, Dogara, Govs, UK, Others Condemn Siege Meanwhile, prominent Nigerians, Including Saraki, Dogara and state governors, as well as the British government yesterday condemned the invasion of the National Assembly by operatives of the DSS to stop the emergency meeting convened to consider INEC election budget. In the joint statement they issued announcing the postponement of the emergency meeting, Saraki and Dogara said the action of the DSS cannot be justified in a democracy. They said, “The heavy presence of armed security men who unnecessarily militarized the legislative complex and harassed legislators and the workers in the complex could not be justified in a democracy. “Obviously, the public outcry from Nigerians and members of the international community against this illegality, this desecration of the sanctity of the legislature and this flagrant abuse of powers forced the government to relax the directives given to the security men as they later allowed the legislators to walk from the main gate into the foyer. “Still, the lawmakers were not allowed to drive in, in their vehicles and were denied access into the main building housing their offices. “It is not clear what the plan of the government is but information reaching us indicated that some Senators who are pro-executive arm are being camped somewhere here in Abuja and they are being compelled to sign an impeachment notice that would later be brought to the Assembly complex. The Senate Chamber will now be forced open to enable an illegal change of leadership to take place in the Senate. “It should be noted that the Senate formally adjourned on July 24, 2018 and it stands adjourned. To reconvene, there is a process, which has to be followed. Also, it should be clear that these Senators who are camped somewhere know the procedure for changing the leadership of the Senate. Both the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Presidency officials masterminding this illegality know that they do not have the numbers to lawfully carry out this action. “Therefore, we call on members of the international community to view this development as a coup against democracy. This is a throwback to the inglorious days of military rule where dissent is not tolerated and freedom of association and other fundamental human rights are willfully and carelessly violated”. The two presiding officers urged Nigerians and the international community to condemn the illegal invasion of the National Assembly complex and “the attempt to asphyxiate the legislature as undemocratic, uncivilised and irresponsible. “Let us use this opportunity to thank our colleagues in the Senate and House of Representatives who immediately mobilized to resist this coup against democracy. Their action will be recorded as one taken at a time when the soul of this country is being imperiled. “They have acted to avert the breakdown of constitutionalism and collapse of the rule of law. They have stood up to dictatorship and demonstrated that this country belongs to all of us”, the added. On their part, governors of the 36 states of the federation under the auspices of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) frowned at what they described as yesterday morning’s attempted take-over of the National Assembly by operatives of the DSS. Condemning the act without equivocation, the governors said the siege on the National Assembly is a most despicable action that “challenges the core of the nations democracy and threatens Nigeria’s corporate existence in the long run”. This was contained in a statement signed by Head of media and public affairs of the NGF, Abdulrazaque Barkindo. Barkindo said the chairman of the NGF, Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State who is a former member of the National Assembly, having served there as a member of the House of Representatives between 2003 and 2011, before becoming governor in 2011, called on the acting president to ensure that the participants in the unwise action are met by the full wrath of the law. “Governor Yari Abubakar described the National Assembly as the bastion of democracy and added therefore that an attack on it is an attack on the collective conscience of the country at large. Governor Abdulaziz Yari Abubakar warned against such actions in the future saying that such unbridled meddlesomeness by the nation’s security operatives were capable of plunging the country into the unfortunate circumstances of unnecessary confusion”, he stated. Democracy Under Threat- Wike Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, declared yesterday that the nation’s democracy is under threat following the military-terrorist style of the present administration. Wike who was reacting to the invasion of the National Assembly by the DSS observed that democracy revolves around diplomacy and lobbying. The governor said, “I have said it before and I will continue to say it. There is a threat to democracy.  When they started with Judiciary, I raised alarm that this thing will happen to all arms of government.  Now it has spread to the legislative arm. “If well-meaning Nigerians don’t speak up, our democracy will be truncated. Just one week ago, they laid siege and locked the Benue State House of Assembly. To the chagrin of all Nigerians, they invaded the beacon of democracy at the federal level.” He stated that the APC-led federal government believes in intimidation and coercion of opponents, rather than following the principles of democracy. “I thought that politics is diplomacy and lobbying. Not this military terrorist style to go and invade an institution like the National Assembly”, he added. On the sack of Daura as DG DSS, Wike said he is unaware of the reason behind his sack. “I don’t believe he was sacked due to the invasion because the Inspector General of Police did same thing at the Benue State House of Assembly, but nothing has happened to the Inspector General of Police”, he stated. Osinbajo Acted Decisively– Dankwambo On his part, Gombe State governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo, said Acting President Osinbajo acted decisively by relieving the DG DSS, Lawal Daura, of his job. Dankwambo in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday described the forceful take-over of the National Assembly Complex by officials of security agencies as an ignominious assault on the rules of decency, a rude violation of the principles of separation of powers and ultimately, a violent assault on the nation’s democracy. The governor said such officers and men must be brought to justice. He stressed that all the officers involved in the egregious act as well as their directing superiors have ”committed an act of treason against the people of Nigeria” who, irrespective of political divides and partisan fault lines, have a common goal of ensuring the sanctity of our democratic institutions. He said, ‘’What happened should set alarm bells ringing in the heads of every patriotic Nigerian and every friend of Nigeria that our nation is being taken to the precipice and the agents of destruction are very much at work. “It is just alright that Acting President Yemi Osinbajo has acted decisively by relieving the Director General of the State Security Service of his job with immediate effect. “But it must be noted that this is not enough comfort. All of the officers involved in today’s egregious act as well as their directing superiors have committed an act of treason against the people of Nigeria who, irrespective of political divides and partisan fault lines, have a common goal of ensuring the sanctity of our democratic institutions”. Dankwambo called on Nigerians to be vigilant, saying a certain tyranny is on the loose and dictatorship is on the prowl, out to devour the nation’s hard earned democracy. Tambuwal Applauds Sack Of DSS Boss Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, yesterday applauded the immediate removal from office of the DG DSS from office, just as he condemned the siege on the National Assembly complex in Abuja by the DSS operatives. He said the invasion was a flagrant affront to democracy and the elected representatives of the Nigerian people. Tambuwal described the action as a direct and unacceptable indication of contempt for the sanctity of the Legislature as bastion of democracy. He said that as a former lawmaker and immediate past Speaker of the House of Representatives, he was confounded that anyone could contemplate and carry out such an act. He commended Acting President Osinbajo for his intervention, even as he called on the international community to rise in condemnation of the action, which he described as a very dangerous threat to the survival of democracy in Africa’s most populous nation. “It is wrong and unconscionable for security operatives of any 21st Century nation to act in ways suggesting democracy and the will of the people could be held to ransom”, he noted. Tambuwal described the incident as an attempted coup against the Legislature that requires full and unremitting investigation. UK Govt Condemn Siege Meanwhile, the British High Commission yesterday condemned the invasion of the National Assembly by the DSS, saying Britain will only tolerate a democratic process that takes into cognisance the rights of Nigerians to participate in election process. “We are aware of media reports of a situation at the National Assembly this morning. We are closely monitoring the situation and other political developments in Nigeria. “The United Kingdom supports a process whereby the people of Nigeria can exercise their democratic right to vote and be voted for. We favour a free, fair, credible and peaceful process, and the independence of institutions, which allow for that”, spokesperson for the UK Embassy in Abuja, Joe Abuku noted in a statement. The statement came hours after Senator Ben Murray-Bruce had asked that foreign sanctions be meted on those involved in the siege at the parliament. APC Distances Self, As PDP Seeks Probe, Punishment The governing All Progressives Congress (APC yesterday distanced itself and the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, from the invasion of the National Assembly by the DSS. The party said that like every other concerned Nigerian, it was monitoring the development. APC chided mischief-makers for dragging its national chairman into what happened in the National Assembly yesterday, insisting that it is purely a legislative matter. This was contained in a terse statement issued by the acting national publicity secretary of the party, Mr Yekini Nabena. The party noted: “Our attention has been drawn to mischievous attempts in some partisan quarters to link Tuesday’s developments in the National Assembly to the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “While the Party is monitoring the developments in the National Assembly like every other concerned Nigerian and stakeholder, there is absolutely no basis for all the false allegations and attempt to blame the APC National Chairman for the development there. It is strictly a legislative matter.” But the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday urged the National Assembly to immediately pull the full weight of all legislative instruments against President Muhammadu Buhari, saying it is the only way to save the nation from an imminent collapse. The party said in sending armed security men to invade the National Assembly and block lawmakers from accessing the legislative chambers, “President Buhari has crossed the line by placing our democracy in jeopardy, thus setting our nation on the path of anarchy.” The PDP, in a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the invasion of the highest legislative institution by those it described as agents of the Buhari-led executive a few months after the Senate mace was blazingly carted away by armed hoodlums is condemnable, reprehensible, unpardonable, and completely unacceptable. Ologbondiyan stated: “With this siege, barely a week after presiding officers of the Senate were held hostage at their residences, it has become clear that the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) intend to forcefully overrun and ultimately shutdown the highest lawmaking organ of the Nigerian government and pave the way for the total suspension of constitutional rule in the country. “The PDP notes in this administration’s quest to foist a fascist regime our country, the APC-led government has taken several steps and actions tending towards the suspension of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), including direct usurpations of the duties and powers of the National Assembly and the judiciary in governance. “Nigerians and the international community will recall that the PDP had earlier alerted of this plot, which included the phony medical trip to London for President Buhari as an alibi to exonerate him from any blame for this sordid assaults on democracy. “The PDP, therefore, calls on the Government of Britain to support Nigeria at this perilous time by not shielding President Buhari in London. Nigerians urge the British government and other members of the international community to immediately condemn and totally reject the ugly developments our country”. Police Deny Involvement The Nigeria Police Force has said it was not involved in the blockade of the National Assembly in the early hours of yesterday. This is coming just as Police sources confirmed yesterday that the sacked DG of DSS, Lawal Daura is in their custody. “The Police wishes to categorically state that its personnel was not involved in any way whatsoever in the blockade of the National Assembly. The Force was not informed and has no pre-knowledge of the blockade”, Force PRO, Jimoh Moshood, noted in a statement. He further said, The Nigeria Police Force hereby implores the media and the general Public to disregard in entirety insinuations that Police personnel were involved in the blockade as untrue, misleading and a misinformation. “The Nigeria Police Force will continue to ensure that the rule of law prevails, sustain unflinching respect, support and protection of all constituent authorities and democratic institutions in the Country, while maintaining law and order, protection of lives and property Nationwide”.