Former governor of Sokoto State, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, said yesterday that despite the gale of defections that blew across the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, President Muhammadu Buhari will record landslide victory in the state at the 2019 presidential election. The seat of the Caliphate was yesterday crammed with a mammoth crowd, as supporters of the former governor who is now a serving Senator thronged the state capital on his arrival from Abuja. Wamakko who arrived the Sultan Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar 111 International Airport Sokoto at about 1:45pm got to his residence at about 4:00pm as a result of the gridlock caused by his supporters along the airport road. Addressing the crowd, Senator Wamakko said his greatest happiness remains that the people of the state and Nigerians have come to know the truth about those that truly love the nation. He noted that the heroic welcome he got from the people of the state was a manifestation of the fact that the people of Sokoto, Northwest and all Nigerians still love Buhari, even as he assured that the president will win with a landslide victory come 2019. The former governor faulted the claim by his successor, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, that President Buhari has done nothing for the state, saying the whole world knows that the president holds Sokoto and Nigerians in high esteem. He said, “It is my honour to welcome the entire people who have come to receive me and show their solidarity for APC today. I am very confident that Sokoto State is for APC.  President Muhammadu Buhari’s message to the good people of the state is that he is very happy with all of them.  And that he will continue to appreciate their support and prayers.” Wamakko’s who is also the chairman of Northern Senators’ Forum maintained that Nigerians are aware that PMB meant well for the country. He expressed optimistism that the APC will still win because Nigerians have come to understand that the party meant well for them. On Buhari’s chances in the 2019 polls, Wamakko said, “I want to assure all of you here today that by God’s grace, President Muhammadu Buhari will win 2019 presidential election with landslide victory”. He noted that the electorate could see for themselves some of the federal government projects currently going on in the state. Speaking on why they chose to welcome the Senator in such a manner, former governor of Kebbi State, Senator Abubakar Dakingari said it was because they know Wamakko’s worth in the nation’s politics. Dakingari who spoke on behalf of Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu, assured that they are solidly behind APC and Buhari come 2019. On his part, Sokoto state chairman of the APC, Alhaji Sadiq Isa Achida, said the state electorate decided to turn out enmass to give Wamakko a heroic welcome for not letting them down. According to him, the entire state have decided to give Wamakko a heroic welcome for staying put in APC despite the gales of defection that struck the party lately. Achida noted that the crowd was made of people from the 23 local governments areas of the state as well as from Kebbi and Zamfara States just to show Wammko how much they love him, the party and the Buhari administration.