Members of the House of Representatives have cautioned the All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the House against alleged plot to impeach Speaker Yakubu Dogara and distracting members from discharging their legislative functions with their 2019 ambitions. The lawmakers under the aegis of Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) warned strongly against toying with the idea of impeaching Speaker Dogara, saying it will be resisted with fire. Spokesperson for the group, Hon Timothy Golu, who issued the warning in a statement yesterday in Abuja, said the PDG has watched and listened with consternation series of accusations and counter accusations of support groups among the APC caucus in the House. He said, “We believe it is the aftermath of the gale of defections that had hit the party in recent times, of which more is being expected. In as much as we will not delve into their personal caucus matters. “However any issue that concerns the larger house will not cease to get our attention, especially the accusation by one group that another group is contemplating the impeachment of the Speaker. “We want to warn that such discussions should start and end at the APC secretariat or the secretariats of the various APC house groups. We are keeping our eyes and ears wide open for any such eventuality and to restate our readiness to return fire for fire on anyone thinking of it. “If they claim that someone is thinking of becoming speaker in 2019 when the tenure has not ended, it will not be out of place to suspect such motives especially when the same people have been talking strongly on the urgent need to address critical legislative issues”. The lawmakers maintained that Dogara who is on top of his job has been doing excellently well, respecting his colleagues and leading with the fear of God and in accordance with the constitution and the House rules. According to them, Dogara has performed very well in providing the expected legislative leadership and that if anyone is thinking of replacing him even when his tenure is yet to end, it means a lot may be happening underground. Golu continued: “We call on our colleagues leading the various splinter groups in the APC to allow the house go on smoothly until the 9th of June, 2019 or thereabout. “We do not want the externally influenced distraction taking place in the red chamber where some anti-democratic forces want to truncate democracy to happen in the house. As true democrats, we are at alert, keeping vigilance and monitoring happenings with eagle eye wherever they are”.