A pressure group within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, the Rivers Unity House (RUH) has said the party needs a gubernatorial candidate who is neutral in the seeming division within the party to confront Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike in the 2019 general election. Convener of RUH, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, who disclosed this yesterday while addressing a press conference in Port Harcourt, attributed the seeming division within the APC in the state to the premature gubernatorial ambition of few members of the party. Wali urged the party to give its gubernatorial ticket to billionaire entrepreneur, Architect Tonye Dele Cole, saying that his leadership is a panacea for resolving the life threatening politics of hate and contention in the state. He said: “The unique selling points of The Rivers Unity House advocacy of a Tonye Cole leadership as a panacea for resolving the life threatening politics of hate and contention in Rivers State were and still remain as follows: “The present division within the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a political party, especially occasioned by the premature gubernatorial ambition of a few, and the clandestine push of the others for the same purpose, requires a neutral person. “Tonye Cole will be the elixir for Rivers State electorate that have desire for real and effective governance away from the present rancorous knee jerk governance deficit of the PDP “Tonye Cole possesses the finesse that befits the new narrative of responsible and progressive political leadership. Tonye Cole packs a formidable credential, out of his personal endeavour that he will not be perceived as a political lap dog. “Tonye Cole possesses the political war chest to substantially fund his campaign and thereby depend less on public resources for the purpose. Tonye Cole can leverage on the political/business goodwill he has with leading industrialists and political leaders in the country & the world. “As a practicing Christian of the Pentecostal denomination, Tonye Cole will do good to all manners of men thereby guaranteeing the full essence of government which is to secure the security and welfare of all citizens. “Tonye Cole is a neutral/non-controversial person without previous political opponents. This makes him a marketable brand that will appeal to all political tendencies in the State. “Tonye Cole has never been associated with desperation or acquisition that undermines the interest of others or fellow competitors. Finally, being an entrepreneur, he will apply effective business model to drive the administration of the State.” 