Meanwhile, the presidency yesterday dismissed claims by the PDP that President Muhammadu Buhari has taken a 10-day leave in order to leave the stage for illegal and unconstitutional actions by the administration as ridiculous and a hollow narrative to garner cheap sympathy. The PDP had alleged that President Buhari’s 10-day leave was an alibi to exonerate him from a planned invasion of the National Assembly. In a statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, the party spokesman, PDP had said the president is terrified and distressed by defections from the APC. But reacting to PDP’s claims, presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, noted that the president, a sworn democrat, handing power to his deputy without compulsion is in itself, exemplary and innovative, something that the PDP failed to produce in their sixteen years of monumental mismanagement and sadistic plunder. Shehu pointed out that the vice president who acts in the absence of the president is a lawyer of the highest rank and a social rights crusader who had received local and international acclaim before he took the vice president office.
He said it is inconceivable that this is the team to copy the bad manners cast in stone in the PDP. In a statement he issued yesterday, Shehu said, “We welcome objective criticism and take them seriously and humbly, but Nigerians must by now be tired of a party, the stock in trade of which is to cry wolf where there is none, ostensibly to spread negativity and distract the President’s attention from the cleansing operations he has been mandated carry out. “The President is carrying out difficult reforms for the future growth of the country, such as the implementation of the ease of doing business, the Treasury Single Account, TSA, the whistleblower process, and hundreds of others, including the massive investment in rail, roads and power”.
Shehu contended that if such reforms had happened in 16 years of the PDP, it would have made things much better for the country. The presidential spokesman said the PDP seems to be fixated with a desperate quest for power, and nothing but power for its own sake because they have nothing to offer. He stated: “The whole country is fighting corruption and the ordinary citizen is happy about all that is happening. The economic parameters have changed for the better, a clear indication that the administration’s political and economic strategies are working but the opposition is not interested. “If the PDP doesn’t have anything that would help our farmers, women, the common man and the youth, they should just keep quiet. In the end, one thing Nigerians should take away from the cacophonous falsehoods from the PDP and the tenants back in their tent is that they all fear one thing, that their old records will be reopened”.