HUSSAINI HAMMANGABDO x-rays the intrigues surrounding the defection of Senator Abdul-Azeez Nyako, representing Adamawa Central, from APC to ADC and then PDP. The defection wind blowing across the country has also blown, albeit mildly, in Adamawa State. The recent defection of Sen. Abdul-Azeez Nyako, representing Adamawa Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) attests to the changing times in the state ahead of 2019. Nyako, son of the immediate past governor of the state, Murtala, had moved to the African Democratic Congress (ADC) two weeks ago. The senator, who defected with Alhaji Rufai Umar, a member representing Gombi constituency in the House of Assembly, said they were compelled to leave APC with their supporters because of what he described as injustice meted on him and his supporters  during the recent congresses of APC in the state. “Justice is the foundation for everything good and we want to enjoin ADC to ensure justice to all so that more people will come and join. I am hopeful and pray to God that this step taken will be better for us,” Abdul-Azzez said. In his remarks at the occasion the acting Chairman of ADC in the state, Alhaji Mijinyawa Kugama, said the party was committed to justice for all. “That’s why we are going to ensure that everyone is carried along in the party congress starting on July 24,” Kugama said. Kugama explained that the initial 700 membership cards given to each of the 21 local government areas of the state had been exhausted, adding that another batch of cards would be release. In his speech at the occasion, the National Secretary of ADC, Alhaji Saidu Baba-Abdullahi, expressed happiness over the development and assured all members of equal rights and justice. The grouse of the senator revolves largely around the outcome of the recent APC party congresses which didn’t favour him. This is against the backdrop that he is eyeing the governorship seat in the state in 2019. But some pundits in the state believe that the senator moved out of APC too quickly because a day before his defection, the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, at the National Working Committee (NWC) meeting, declared the adoption of direct primary to choose governorship candidates for the party, a system which he used for the recent Osun governorship party primary. Other analysts believe that the senator moved out having realised that he stood little or no chance of retrieving the APC structure from the governor’s grip after the recent party congresses. ADC was however not the senator’s final destination. He alongside 12 other senators moved on the floor of the red chamber to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a move that has caused some raised eye brows. But while the younger Nyako has been flexing his political muscle in the state, his father has remained in the background as a member of the APC. It is not yet known whether the former governor is the orchestrator of his son’s political movements. Sen Nyako had resigned as naval officer to support his father in the governance processes of the state, a move that was seen as positioning the son to be governor. Feelers from the former governor’s camp are still hazy over whether he would remain in the APC despite having worked hard to sustain the party in the state. He was the first among the former PDP governors that pulled out to join APC in the build up to 2015 general election. Although he had backed the incumbent governor of the state, Bindow Jibrilla, to emerge the candidate of the APC in the 2015 governorship election, his impeachment at the twilight of his tenure affected, somewhat, his hold on the reins of the party. Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, who was then a chieftain of the APC, had sooner than Nyako left the scene, emerged the main political leader in the party in the state.The governor courted the former vice president’s counsel until, the latter, left the party for the PDP. But at this time, the rapport between the governor and his immediate predecessor had been measurably strained. Nevertheless, senior Nyako still appears miffed by the outcome of the recent congresses as well. His loyalists in the APC popularly known as the  ‘The black cap group’  filed court cases challenging the congress in the state. They also prayed for total cancellation of the exercise. The members led by Usman Ibrahim, demanded a new date for  fresh conduct of all the congresses of APC in the state. The group, while submitting a letter of petition to Sen. Nurudeen Usman, chairman ward congress Appeal Panel Committee in the state also demanded that ward congress committee headed by Mahmud Musa, be banned from conducting further congresses in the state. “The ward congress led a bad foundation for subsequent congress in the  state.” Usman lamented, adding that the committee must treat all the evidences in all 226 wards in the state. The  group had submitted same petition to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), before proceeding to court to seek redress over the congress of the party in the state. How well the new APC leadership at the national level intervenes in the matter will be key, analysts have posited. However, for Senator Nyako, the journey is just beginning. Many pundits believe that unless he has the backing of his father, he might have a long way to go in achieving his governorship ambition in 2019, much less, a return to the upper chamber. Atiku, being one of the front runners for the PDP presidential ticket, is  largely assuming the leader of the party in Adamawa State. While some analysts aver that it is unlikely that the senior Nyako would work with Atiku in same party, others aver that in an ever evolving political environment like Adamawa, their interests could well align both in the state (for Nyako) and the federal (for Atiku).