Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, lamented that huge debts and liabilities bequeathed to his administration by successive governments in the state are hampering government’s efforts in providing the much-needed facilities in the state. Obaseki stated this while receiving the chairman of the Governing Board of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Amb. Fatima Balla Abubakar and members of the board who were in Government House on a courtesy visit. The governor who pledged a utility vehicle and a power generating set to the agency to make life easier for the corps members, disclosed that records show that the fund appropriated for the development of the orientation camp, during its relocation from Abudu, in Orhionmwon local government area to Okada, in Ovia North East local government area was not utilised for the project. He lamented that the facilities at the orientation camp are in bad shape, noting that if the fund appropriated were utilised, the story would have been different today. He however pledged to support the NYSC and assured that plans are in top gear to revamp the orientation camp to better serve graduates participating in the national youth service scheme in the state. “We have a camp at Abudu to take are of corps members, but some people relocated the facility to Okada. We are just recovering that facility now to establish a teacher training college,” he said, adding that the bad governance experienced in the state at a point in her history, bequeathed huge liabilities to successive governments, some of which are being cleared by his administration. He assured that despite the challenges, his administration would not shy away from the task of improving the wellbeing of all Edo people and residents in the state. He said his administration would do its best to invest in NYSC because in his days as a corps member, he enjoyed his service year and would ensure that the younger generations enjoy their stay in the state. Earlier, the chairman of the NYSC governing board commended the governor for his giant strides across all sectors of the state and described Edo people as hospitable and said she would cherish the memory of her stay in the state. She explained that members of the board were in the state to inspect facilities at both the temporary and permanent camps of the NYSC in the state and appealed to the governor to assist the agency with a power generating set and a utility vehicle.