The Senator representing Kogi West in the Senate, Senator Dino Melaye, has described the call by his counterparts in the Nigerian Senate and other stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC), that its President, Senator Bukola Saraki should relinquish his position as “fallacious and a big joke.” Melaye who said this while speaking to newsmen in Abuja during the weekend was specifically reacting to Senator, Abu Ibrahim (APC-Katsina) who said peace will be elusive in the Nigerian Senate until its President, Bukola Saraki, relinquishes the position. The Kogi West Senator also vowed that the PDP Senators will resist any form of interference from the Presidency when the Senate resumes plenary on September 25. Consequently, he said that such call is “undemocratic and fruitless efforts that will end in futility”. The Senator who advised all crucifiers of Saraki, to leave him alone as Senate President irrespective of the party he belongs to, recalled that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) voted more for him in the election that made him the Senate President in the first place. Melaye maintained that Saraki, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, and Yakubu Dogara were elected based on the provisions of the constitution and not based on party. He averred that the PDP Senators will use its strength via legitimate means to defend the position of the present leadership of the Senate under Saraki, Ekweremadu and the nation’s democracy. He said lovers of democracy will never make such call, adding that the PDP who is the major opposition party in the country will continue to defend the nation’s democracy. “Attempt to relinquish Saraki as the President is null and void on arrival. It is obvious that those making this statements and their cohorts are not democrats. “History will record everyone’s role in the country. Before the political tsunami and mass defection, how many times do the APC Senators visited the Presidential Villa. “Attempt to relinquish Saraki will be tales by moon light. We opt to engage in activities that will make our democracy move forward, but I am not surprise those making these frivolous statements do not believe in rule of law, the provisions of the constitution, the standing order of the Senate, parliamentary procedure and the due process,” the Kogi West Senator said. On the political party that remains the majority in the Senate, he said when the Senators resumes plenary, it will be visible to all.