“Asiko Ope, Janet ti de”! Chanted 3x in Yoruba language by the drummers beating the gan gan (talking drum) was the intro of iconic Queen of Music new song “Made For Now” by Janet Jackson featuring Puerto Rican rapper, Daddy Yankee, who thrilled thousands of fans on ‘The Tonight Show’, hosted by Jilly Fallon. Janet and her crew were dressed in “Ankara attire dancing some of the scintillating, captivating and trendy local dance steps like the shoki and others.” Also, the stage was designed in ankara costumes just like what is trending in some of the videos of Nigerian artistes like Wizkid, Tiwa Savage and others. Though what many might not know is that the African-Yoruba fusion in her song is strategic as any artiste across the globe who wants to gain more followership or identity must identify with the Nigerian culture and people. Though, in the lyrics wasn’t all Yoruba, the celebration and promotion of the Nigerian cum African culture in her song shows the world that Nigeria and Africa have come of age. Janet exhibited why she remains a force to be reckoned with in the music industry as she was seen in the four-minute plus video on YouTube, gyrating and singing with her dancers. The Nigerian music industry is the toast of every artiste across the globe right now. They have continued to associate themselves with our local artistes like Drake, Omarion, Rihanna, P Diddy, Jay Z, Beyonce, Rick Ross, Wale, Ciara, Kerry Hilson, Chris Brown, Meek Mill, Nicki Minaj, DJ Khalid etc and now the best female artiste of all time, Jenet Jackson who is the younger sister to late Michael Jackson. So far, the video has generated over 1.5 million views and has 5,956 comments, mostly praises of the uniqueness of the performance. This song is a perfect representation of the unity and similarities between Latin and African cultures. They love to dance, celebrate and enjoy the rhythm of life! The iconic songstress has really taken the African (Nigerian) culture to a new level in her new song “Made For Now.”