A presidential aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, has said the President Muhammadu Buhari can no longer muster 12 million votes in the North like in previous presidential elections. The former minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs, spoke through the director of publicity in his campaign organisation, Sola Atere, who picked Turaki’s nomination and expression of interest forms at the party’s national secretariat to contest the October 6, 2018 PDP presidential primary. Atere, while speaking with newsmen said Buhari’s poor performance in the last three years has eroded the possibility of his retaining the 12 million votes from the North, ahead of 2019. He also stated that the decision by the federal government’s to deny another presidential aspirant, Rabiu Kwankwaso, use of the Eagle Square for the declaration of his presidential ambition would negatively affect the electoral fortunes of the APC. “What they are saying was way back in 2015. Things have changed. When you have not been in power, you can make all sorts of forecasts. Now the scenario has changed. Nigerians have seen to what extent the APC government can perform.“And if you look at a lot of the projects they are laying claim to, they were established by the PDP. Look at the railways for instance, the one from Abuja to Kaduna, they themselves reported at some point that the Jonathan administration had gone over 60 percent as far as that project is concerned.“The so-called 12 million voters they are laying claim to would have been reduced. Because look at the economic situation. Where people are complaining that they cannot even have one square meal, how do you expect them to come out and go and aggravate votes up to 12 million for somebody who has been the architect of their misfortune?” Reacting to the Kwankwaso saga, he said, “The injury that they are inflicting on Kwankwaso, is one of the things Nigerians will see and will not vote for them. And that is part of the factors that will reduce the 12 million votes. Having said that, they are doing nothing new. Because since they have come there, they have been harassing people. You saw the Gestapo approach in arresting judges. People know that they are just abrasive. “But I can assure you if we get the ticket, it is going to be a different ball game because we are not going to accept that. And of course, the international community is watching. It is part of the game plan to harass people, intimidate people and possibly anybody that they see that has a strong potential to challenge their own candidate, they want to beat them down. So that at the end of the day, they want to have a semi-autocratic regime in place,” he said.