*Says Attempt To Impeach Saraki Is Inviting Anarchy A former member representing  Etsako federal  Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Abubakar Momoh, Tuesday allayed  fears that the defection of political heavy weights from the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC to  the People’s Democratic Party, PDP to hijack the party’s structure as unnecessary. He also noted that the hue and cries by members of the APC, over debate whether Senate President Bukola Saraki should resign his position or not must be guided by the constitution. Momoh, a Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State is eying his party ticket to contest the Edo North senatorial seat in the 2019 general election spoke to newsmen in Benin yesterday said the ruling APC should blame itself for the quagmire it found itself over Saraki. He said: “There is no hijacking by the new comers. Water like they say will always find it level. If the person coming in is more superior to you he must occupy his level. It is the same people who went into the APC few years ago and produce results that are coming back. “Are they not the same people who went into the APC then that won election in APC? Is there any of them that is coming back today that was not in PDP? Those who are making noise today are not politicians. Is there any of them that can win election for the party on their own? If we don’t accept them and give them their rightful place how do we win election? Nobody should be afraid. On Saraki he stated: “To me the issue of whether Saraki should resign of not should be looked at from the angle of the constitution. We should first of all seek whether the constitution allow a person of the opposition to occupy such position, my answer is yes” “Because the constitution did not specify whether the senate President or the speaker belongs to a particular political party and the laws state that the house will determine who to emerge. The deputy senate President is PDP and he was elected on the basis of the constitution so if an opposition represented by the deputy senate President is, so also an opposition can be the senate President”. “If I may also borrow the word of Lai Mohammed in a statement he made in 2014 when the then speaker Aminu Tambuwal in the House of Representatives which I was a member defected from PDP to APC, Lai Mohammed made it clear that they had been precedence. It is only 2/3 of the house that can remove.  “You can be elected on simple majority so anything short of 2/3 is like inviting anarchy to the system. On the basis of morality people may say it is wrong but we are talking about the constitution. “Even the Saraki we are talking about today was elected by the same PDP people in the house, so who are you to blame? That a party that has majority in the beginning to allow opposition people to determine the person to be elected it is the APC that should be blamed. “The party failed to seat down and decide who should get what even when people like Tinubu foresaw it then the President and his men did not. Perhaps they thought that Tinubu wanted to hijack the party. It shows that the party was not ready. The party should blame itself because all the noise they are making now is not necessary.