When it comes to enriching the body with the needed nutrients, tiger nut is a miracle worker. Known in the Hausa Language as ‘aya,’ these nuts are one of the earliest recorded plants cultivated in ancient Egypt. And they have been used medicinally for both oral medications and enemas. Counted among the healthiest plants in the world, tiger nuts are known to help in the prevention of a number of diseases like heart attack, thrombosis and activate blood circulation. Due to the high contents of soluble glucose in these nuts, they also help prevent cancer, and especially, reduces the risk of suffering colon cancer. Apart from these listed benefits, here are six more wonderful health benefits of these sweet nuts. 1. It cures erectile dysfunction In the world of alternative medicine, tiger nuts have been shown to be very beneficial in improving the problem of erectile dysfunction (ED). Although there is no medical evidence to support this claim, natives of Ghana have been using this traditional medicine for decades in the form of palliative for treating ED. 2. It helps prevent bacterial infection Another wonderful health benefit of tiger nuts is that it helps the body fight a bacteria. As a matter of fact, a recent study has shown that tiger nuts can be used to fight bacterial infection such as ecoli and salmonella. It is also useful in fighting bacterial infection such as streptococcus. 3. Regulate blood pressure Tiger nuts are a rich carrier of potassium and potassium is said to be very useful when it comes to lowering blood pressure. Besides potassium, the magnesium in the nuts also helps regulate the heartbeat and maintain normal blood pressure levels. 4. It helps in digestion Oral tradition has it that tiger nuts were used to treat stomach upsets, irritable bowels, and other digestive issues. They have also been used in folk medicine as a remedy for many ailments, including flatulence and diarrhea. And the enzymes, such as amylase, lipase, and catalase that are contained in it, help aid digestion. 5. It fights malnutrition In under-developed nations where it is difficult for everyone to have access to highly nutritious food, tiger nuts can serve as a healthy option because they are very rich in nutrients such as carbohydrate, fat, fiber, calcium, sodium, magnesium, phosphorus, iron, copper, iron and zinc. Studies have also shown that the golden brown tiny tubers contain many beneficial vitamins that are capable of meeting the nutritional needs of those lacking in one.