The publisher of LEADERSHIP Newspaper, Sam Nda-Isaiah, has been conferred with the chieftaincy title of Aare Baaroyin of Akure Kingdom by the Deji of Akure Kingdom, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Ogunlade Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi. The monarch conveyed the decision of the Deji-in-Council to honour Nda-Isaiah in a letter delivered to him in his Abuja residence by the delegation from Akure, the Ondo State capital, yesterday. The delegation, led by the Edemo of Akure Kingdom, High Chief Afolabi Fayehun, said the Deji of Akure and his Council of Chiefs considered Nda- Isaiah for the chieftaincy title due to his unblemished antecedents in the newspaper industry. Chief Fayehun said, “After due consultations, the Deji of Akure found out that you are a detribalised Nigerian and the Kabiyesi instructed that we should personally deliver this letter to you.” In his response, Nda-Isaiah appreciated the honour bestowed upon him, especially as the Deji of Akure does not personally know him. He said, “I was surprised when I was told that the Deji wanted to confer on me a chieftaincy title. I said, I don’t know him and he doesn’t know me. This is a very big honour to me. It is a thing that I will not joke with. “This will be the beginning of my relationship with Akure Kingdom, apart from the time I served in the state. I appreciate this and I cherish it. I will sustain and make sure that there is mutual benefit from both sides.” At the Corporate Headquarters of the LEADERSHIP Newspaper, the delegation urged the media organisation to support the ancient town in projecting its image and rich cultural heritage to the whole world The leader of the delegation, High Chief Afolabi Fayehun, described Akure as one of the oldest state capitals in the country, hence the need to showcase its potential to the world, particularly during the forthcoming Odun Ulefunta Oyemekun Festival 2018. Chief Fayehun praised LEADERSHIP Newspapers for its sound editorial policy of speaking the truth at all times. He said, “Akure is one of the oldest capital cities we have in the country and one of the key Yoruba towns that migrated from Ile-Ife. For the past 50 years, we have been celebrating Oyemekun and we are going round this time to media houses to seek their collaboration for the forthcoming Ulefunta Oyemekun Festival 2018. “LEADERSHIP Newspaper is one of the key newspapers that we trust in the dissemination of news. That is why we made it the number one point of contact in this part of the country. Akure is a commercial hub. We want you to help us tell Nigerians that Akure is open for business.” LEADERSHIP’s chief operating officer (COO), Mr Dele Fanimo, who received the delegation on behalf of the publisher, assured them that the company would do justice to their request. Fanimo said, “We will do justice to your request and make sure that the ancient town gets maximum coverage before, during and after the forthcoming Ulefunta Oyemekun Festival. It will be easier for us to do now that our chairman is a native of Akure and he is participating in the event.” Among the delegation were the chairman of Ulefunta Oyemekun Festival 2018, Prince Adebisi Adeniyi; Prince Akin Falodun, secretary of the committee, Mr. Ayo Ajayi, and Mr. Michael Adeyeye, the chief press secretary to the Deji of Akure Kingdom.