The immediate past governor of Awka Ibom State and the Senator representing Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Godswill Akpabio has expressed delight with the relationship between Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and his predecessor Sullivan Chime. Sen. Akpabio, who spoke during the funeral ceremony of his grand mother-in-law, Madam Mercy Uduoku Neife Igwenagu in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State, which was attended by Gov. Ugwuanyi and ex-Governor Chime, among other dignitaries, told Chime that “it is not easy to see to a successor giving you this respect; keeping up with your projects; maintaining the projects; improving on them and ensuring the peace of the state”. The Senator commended Gov. Ugwuanyi for his uncommon leadership style anchored on peace and good governance and encouraged the immediate past governor of Enugu State to “support Gov. Ugwuanyi for the good works he is doing in this state”. Sen. Akpabio noted that he was impressed with the giant development strides of Gov. Ugwuanyi, the state’s peaceful atmosphere and the warm hospitality he observed when he visited Enugu with Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State for the burial of the late former Vice President, Chief Alex Ekwueme, stressing that all these were achieved when “there was recession”. “The joy you (Ugwuanyi) also gave me was when I left Enugu Government House in the night, I saw street lights everywhere. I said, I thought in many states that they said that there is recession and I entered those states and there were no street lights again. But you have not only been able to maintain what you met on ground, you have improved on them, you are still improving on them”, Sen. Apkabio pointed out. Speaking on Gov. Ugwunayi’s humble disposition and penchant for peace, the Senator stated that the governor’s humility is “disarming”, saying, “Because you have shown humility to God; that God will give you your heart’s desires”. His words: “We want prosperity and peace. It is in the heart of the individual. It is the love you have in heart for your people that gives prosperity and peace. Our prayer is that God will give you (Ugwuanyi) more resources as you continue to add to the development of Enugu State. Also, as you continue to add to the beauty of Enugu City, may God bless you for your good works. “I am very proud you have been not just an in-law but a great son of Enugu State. Enugu remains the capital of South-South and South-East, and I am sure you know that this whole city will continue to see progress and that can only come with peace and love among all of us. You have shown love from the successor to the predecessor and then to all of us”. Another highlight of the event was the performance of a highly cherished traditional dance in the Igbo land, Igede, by Gov. Ugwuanyi, Chime and Akpabio.