Kano “tumbin giwa” (Kano as big as the stomach of an elephant) best describes the sudden conversion of the political landscape, in the ancient city into a battle between those in support and those embittered with the embattled senate president, Bukola Saraki. The political warfare flagged off when hundreds of protesters marched to Kano State Government House located in between State road and Sabo Bakin Zuwo road, last Thursday to demand the immediate resignation of the senate President from office. The anti Saraki protesters under the aegis of Arewa Solidarity Front , ASF, alleged that, Saraki’s in their judgment lacks the prerequisite to hold forth the exalted position of Senate President. The aggrieved anti-Saraki campaigners who are also pro-Buhari group were led by Bashir Abdullahi to chant anti-Saraki and pro -Buahri slogans. The pro-Buhari group insisted that the national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) should endeavour to do the needful by ensure that they unseat Saraki at all cost. He said “We call on the national leadership of the APC to pursue the immediate removal of the incompetent Senator Saraki, who emerged Senate President through a fraudulent exercise. We urged the national chairman to prevail on our distinguished senators to save the image and restore the glory of the Senate by replacing Saraki, who has so far built bad image of a leader. “We make bold to say, it is unacceptable to allow the incumbent Senate President to continue to ridicule the president and the country’s international image with avoidable controversies over budgets and clearance of federal government political appointees.” Though, many keen political watchers in Kano were taken aback by the action of the anti Saraki protesters as the political dimesion now takes a new dimension on the political shores of the ancient city. While the pro-Buhari protesters were at it,  rumors became rife that sympathizers of the plight of the  embattled Senate President had concluded arrangements to stage a counter protest at same Government House. But as expected, a coalition of Civil Society Groups (CCSG) requested security agencies to bar the pro Saraki group from staging their planned protest whichthey believed would be a solidarity for the Kwara born politician. The CSOs, in a press statement signed by the convener, Comrade Rabiu Shamma, alleged  that the pro-Saraki protest is a guaranteed route to causing chaos in Kano. The CSO’s in a missive sent to the state police command said  “The planned political protest by pro-Saraki group should not be allowed to occur and recent protest by Arewa Solidarity Group should not be allowed to re-occur in order to maintain the peaceful atmosphere in Kano State. “The state commissioner of Police should look into the planned protest with the aim of averting violence that may occur as a result of the counter protest which some unscrupulous elements may pounce on to cause havoc in the state. “That the Directorate of State Service (DSS) should also look into purported protest with the aim of stopping the violence that may arise as a result of the political protest. “That the religious leaders should include in their sermons a bold message condemning any attempt by any group to cause havoc in the state in the name of politics. “The political leaders should also include in their campaign a clear message condemning any attempt by any group to cause disunity in the state in the name of politics. “The youths who are mostly the segment used in promoting violence by the political interests should distance themselves from being manipulated to cause havoc upon one another and in general desist from tarnishing the good image of our dear state. “In conclusion, Coalition of Civil Society Groups (CCSG KANO) wants to re-assure the people of Kano State of our resolve to continue working in strengthening the tenets of democracy, ensuring peace and unity in the state. The coalition will continue organizing series of activities leading up to the 2019 general election in order to ensure violence free election in Kano State.” Kano state police command responded and at this point became a party in the matter, the command issued a ban on protests in connection with the Saraki crisis. In a message aired on public and private owned media outfits, the command’s Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Magaji Musa Majia, cautioned the alleged organizers of  Pro Saraki demonstration to shelve their plans. He stated that, the police will apprehend  pro–Saraki supporters likewise individuals  who may embark on open or disguised protest march in any parts of the state. Adding that the protest is assumed to be illegal, citing that the planners did not acquire the needed police permit that would enable them to stage their planned protest. He said  “Kano State Police Command is  warning the general public against the planned solidarity protest in support of the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki. “The Kano State Police Command did not receive any letter seeking for the permission to engage in any protest….. this protest is therefore illegal “  Majia stated. Barely 48 hours after the police branded the planned protest as illegitimate, a group with the nomenclature, Coalition of Northern Youths under the aegis of  Arewa Youths for Peace and Security (AYPS),  in a press statement issued in Kano,   declared their support for the embattled Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, noting that,  the call for change of leadership, in the  Senate chamber  is unnecessary. The coalition, which is a conglomerate of 19 Northern groups cautioned that actions that are undemocratic should be shunned by political stakeholders. The group urged the APC National Chairman  Comrade Adams Oshiomhole  to invest energy towards addressing other pressing national issues confronting the ruling party. The  National President of the Northern Youth coalition, Alhaji Salisu Magaji, while addressing a press conference  in Kano,  averred that, the senate leadership mandate given to Saraki by fellow senators should not be subjected to rebuke and harassment, he said rather the Senate leadership should  be clothed in glory and not  harassment. The concerned youths argued that, the Senate leadership under Saraki had performed modestly. Adding that, the provisions of the 1999 constitution as amended and procedural rules of the House had both clearly indicated how the leadership of the house should emerge or vacate office. Magaji said, “The rule of the Senate is clear. It states how to elect and how to impeach a Senate President. None of its processes or articles of association includes the kind of subtle force and desperation implied in the remarks by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “Senate President, Dr. Saraki, is not the problem of APC. He has exited to another party. APC has several problems to confront that have nothing to do with Saraki. Comrade Adams Oshiomhole should please leave Saraki alone,” he stated. He faulted last week’s siege on the National Assembly by operatives of DSS saying it was a clear breach of the norms of democracy which should not have been allowed to happen. Magaji counselled senators from the North against aligning themselves with any plot designed to undermine or truncate Saraki’s leadership in the Senate, appealing to the senators to focus on  pursuit of issues that are significant to national development. The youths, drawn from the 19 Northern states, took particular exception to the highly militarized remarks by Oshiomhole. According to him, the senators must and should resist external interference, urging the lawmakers  to invoke internal resolution mechanism to address their crisis so as to sustain and the peace and stability that hitherto existed in their midst. Magaji accused security operatives of bias in the forestalling  of pro-Saraki protesters from marching on the streets of Kano to showcase their support to the embattled Senate President,  but they security agencies feigned ignorance when anti- Saraki groups took to the streets of Kano  to express their views on same topic. The Coalition of Northern Youths further urged him to vie and insist on clinching the ticket to run for the Presidency, declaring  that they are solidly behind his candidature and would massively cast their votes for him. Our checks revealed that, the voice is that of Jacob with the Saraki versus Adams Oshomole political tug of war and the body is that of Esau, the Kwankwassiyya versus Gandujiyya and the Buhariyya camps in Kano have perched of the Saraki versus Oshomole political to launch political onslaught in the quest to capture or retain power come 2019 general elections. Further, radio political programmes, social media platforms and political assemblies have been infested by the Adams Oshomole versus Bukola Saraki political tug of war.