The Nigerian Army has disowned Sgt David Bako, the alleged deserted soldier who on Facebook and social media purportedly leaked how Dapchi Girls’ abduction was planned in the villa and executed with N80 million . The Army said it has crosschecked its records and cannot find anyone called sergeant David Bako who neither served in the Army, deserted or dismissed. In a statement issued yesterday to newsmen by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig Gen Texas Chukwu, the Army said it therefore, disassociates itself from such fictitious report and request the public to disregard the confession made by the so called sergeant David Bako who has not been in the Army at all. “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a news report making the  rounds on Facebook and other social media to smear and drag the Nigerian Army into politics of calumny by mischief makers that one deserted Sergeant David Bako leaked how Dapchi girls’ abduction was planned in the villa and executed with N80 million. “The information was said to be provided by Sergeant David Bako who claimed to be a deserted soldier and one of the abductees of the Dapchi school girls. The Nigerian Army therefore puts the record straight that it has crosschecked its records and cannot find any one called Sergeant David Bako who neither served in the Army nor   deserted or dismissed. “The Nigerian Army therefore dissociates itself with such fictitious report and requests the public to disregard the confession made by the so called Sergeant David Bako who has not been in the Army at all. “It is imperative to know that these baseless and insane allegations are not new in the cyber space, knowing the fact that we are in the age of information warfare. Open Source Intelligence reveals that the website Dailyglobewatch.eu with country code top-level domain (ccTLD) .eu used in publishing stories is obviously fake and therefore not correct. “Based on our findings the website was registered on April  14, 2017 and the last update was on the same date and will expire on  April 14, 2018.We are very familiar with reports of this nature and will advise the general public to disregard such claims and desist from sharing such information on the new media as this is against the Nigerian Cybercrime Act 2015. “However, it is really worrisome to the level at which some people could condescend so low to fabricate fictitious allegation against the Nigerian Army and the military at large for cheap political gains.This is simply an act of pure wickedness, thus the public should disregard such fictitious allegation. “The Nigerian Army wishes to reiterate its commitment to remain apolitical and non-partisan in the discharge of its constitutional roles. We would also like to reaffirm our unconditional support and obedience to civil authority as well as reassuring Nigerians that these Fifth columnists will not succeed in their mischief as they will be fished out and dealt with accordingly,” the statement said.