Bitcoin Exchange firm, Belfrics Global Technology, has launched its operation in Nigeria, under Belfrics Nigeria PVT Limited. A one-stop shop in the world of bitcoin, Belfrics Nigeria PVT Limited is a digital finance company that offers a wide range of products and services to the digital currency industry, including a wallet, a trading platform, a payment gateway and others. Belfrics Nigeria is a subsidiary of Malaysian- based Belfrics Global. Explaining why Belfrics Global Technology, is a leader in digital currency business, the Executive Director of the Nigeria branch, Mr Victor Evoh, said that the company is renowned for its Blockchain solution, which enhances local content and effective regulations where necessary, to boost the economy of the country. Belfrics’ foray into the African market began last year, with the successful takeoff of its Kenya operation. The berthing of the Nigeria branch is a deliberate step by Belfrics to consolidate on its African operation, and by so doing, avail its unparalleled services to thepeople of the region. While unveiling the solution, the Chairman and CEO of Belfrics Global, Mr Praveen Vijay, reiterated that the Blockchain solution, helps to enhance all existing data base in a system, transparency in government operations and openness in public service. ‘‘We are bringing Blockchain technology solutions to Nigeria. What we have at the back of our mind when we talk about Blockchain solution is a kind of ripple effect because we want to bridge the gap of multiple corruptions in all government areas and in all facets of public enterprise’’, Vijay stated. ‘’It brings transparency and eliminates corruption. Blockchain is not a one off thing; it is kind of a house that houses so many entities on it. We have Blockchain solution in area of health, Blockchain solution on law, finance, land management, tax, e-government. ‘’In fact, we have Blockchain in virtually every facet of life because everything we do is not tangible but digitalised. It is digital information. Blockchain solution harnesses all these information and gives transparency to it. That is why it records everything it does in a ledger. It is like a book everybody goes in and see.