A new Governing Board has been inaugurated for the Federal School of Surveying, Oyo in Oyo State. Inaugurating the board at the headquarters of the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing in Abuja,  the Hon. Minister, Babatunde Fashola, who congratulated the new board members on their appointment, charged them to remain focus on the purpose of their appointment which, according to him, is to solve the problems facing the school. “It is my Sincere hope that you will remain mindful of the purpose of your appointment which is to help solve the problems of the school. “You are going there as problem solvers not to create problems as you represent this government and the entire country. The President has committed to serve the country to the best of his ability, but he cannot be everywhere; that is why you are there,” the minister said. Haven urged them to imbibe the spirit of team work and collective responsibility, he said “We expect transparency and accountability in the conduct of public officers which you are,” adding that as minister he would continue to play the intervention role as required by the law from time to time but will not interfere in their affairs. He noted that the Buhari government is committed to infrastructure development accross the country, “and building any infrastructure requires surveying in that area, so you are the foundation and cornerstone of our national development”. Concluding, the minister said, “It is singular honour and pleasure to invest you today”, and wished the Chairman and members a successful tenure. The 11-member board has the Surveyor-General of the Federation, Surv. Ebisinstei Awudu as Chairman. Others are: the Surveyor-General of Oyo State, Surv. A. S. Alaba; Surv. Eyo Oku (SG, Cross River) representing the State Surver-General; Surv. G. A. Uzoma of the Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation (OSGOF); Surv. O. E. Fagbamigbe of the Nigerian institute of Surveyors; Surv. How’s Abdulrasheed of the Federal MInistry of Finance; Surv. Anwuri Okere representing other bodies in the practice of surveying and mapping in Nigeria; Mr I. A. Daniel, Federal MInistry of Education; Dr Famous Eseduwo, Federal MInistry of Power, Works and Housing; Brig. Gen. (Surv.) M. A. Adeniran; Mr Kayode Obama, Ministry of Budget and National Planning; and Surv. J. O. Omilabu. Speaking on behalf of the board members, the Chairman, Surv. Awudu thanked the minister for the confidence reposed in them by nominating them to represent the various stakeholders. “We will discharge our duties with utmost diligence, bearing in mind the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s Zero tolerance for corruption,” he said, concluding by announcing that the board would have their maiden meeting immediately after the inauguration.