National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus, yesterday alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) has constituted a team of eight governors to cage federal lawmakers over their move to veto President Muhammadu Buhari’s refusal to assent to the sequence of election bill recently passed by the National Assembly. Secondus also branded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) a parastatal of the APC, alleging that the ruling party is trying to rig the 2019 general election. He said who also declared that the APC has become a threat to the country, added that the nation is now in crisis. He, however, told the Nigerian youths to take their destiny into their hands and pushing out the APC administration. The PDP boss noted that any country of the world where the youths are not participating in the political development is doomed. The PDP chairman spoke when making remarks at a meeting with PDP Youth Leaders from the 36 States of the Federation and the FCT.Speaking on the refusal of Buhari to assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill, said “This is not the first time the National Assembly amended the electoral law. They have done so severally. Why is this case different? Eight governors of APC have been constituted to begin to move from door to door of members of National Assembly to cage them not to freely make laws for Nigeria. We reject that move and we insist that that the will of Nigerians must be done. The will of Nigerians must prevail.” “Those who are moving from door to door, our governors, ministers ,spending the people’s money; are they God?“I watched on the television where they said government vetoed the Electoral Act because it infringed on the right of INEC to conduct elections. Have you ever heard this before? Who is INEC? Is INEC above the law? Is it not the National Assembly that make laws that govern INEC? Why are they afraid of the amendment? We want to assure Nigerians that the APC government cannot rig this election.” He continued “The Executive wants to make laws which is not their area. They want to gag the National Assembly with a military fiat in a democracy. They want to sanction the National Assembly not to make laws.“They were elected from their various constituencies across this country to make laws for the benefit of the common man and not for the cabal. I urge the APC to allow the National Assembly to make its laws because they were elected to make laws. We are not operating a military dictatorship.” Secondus further accused the APC of planning to rig the elections. He said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has become a parastatal of APC.“The APC government is a threat to the unity of the nation. So wherever the youths are, whether they are in the PDP, APC or APGA, they must rise and defend this nation because this is a country in crisis. “APC has visited on this nation insecurity and divisions. I have never seen a country so divided like this. I never knew any government in this country that practised nepotism like the APC government. We have seen this country so divided by tribalism and nepotism and a collapsed economy as we have today. This government of APC has failed woefully. “You are seeing the confusion in the APC today. They are blaming the IGP and the IGP is blaming them. One arm of the security is blaming the other.“Today, we have several Presidents. That is why the security chiefs can disobey because they don’t know which one to obey.” In a veiled reference to the defection of Professors Tunde Adeniran and Jerry Gana, who moved to the Social Democratic Party (SDP), noting that they have retired from politics. He said “There are those that have retired. I don’t want to mention any name. They are retiring from active service. Because where they are going is retirement. This new PDP is practising internal democracy. Let them go and be retired because they have outlived their usefulness. They are running around from pillar to post. We will not bother them. They are our fathers. When the time comes, they will come back and the youths will provide food for them.” He however said the party will soon start off programmes for the youths one of which is Generation Next. He said the programe is to prepare the youths for the future leadership of our country and our party.“The strength of the youth is the strength of the nation and you must take over the leadership of this party. To do this, you must go to the grassroots and mobilise the youths to rescue this country because this country is in crisis.” The PDP youth leader, Sunday Ude Okoye, assured the party leadership that the youths have placed a target of 13million votes for the party in the 2019 general election. He also urged the party leadership to help them communicate to the zonal chairmen to help them make the message permeate to all nooks and crannies of the country. Former youth leader, Maibasira said the pDp has a central role to ranger that buhari and members of tv canal back to Daura and salvage Nigeria and secure their future Protect Democracy in Nigeria because it is under threat. You have a central role to play. We will be there to support and stand by you when we need to stand by you. PDP is the only party for the young men and women in Nigeria.