The nurse abducted by Boko Haram in Rann,  KalaBalge local government of Borno State  about two weeks ago, has sent a message to her WhatsApp contacts. In the message, written in the Hausa language, which has gone viral, the 24-year-old Hauwa Muhammad Liman called on the recipients of her message to return to the path of God,  denounce the ways of the infidels or else they will also become among the “lost”. The translated message reads: ‘O you people of this world, fear God, denounce infidelity. ‘And if you don’t, Allah will give us victory over you and you will be among the misguided’. The message was sent at about 9pm on March 15. The 24-year old girl had sent an audio message via the same platform when the attack was going on two weeks ago to one of her WhatsApp contacts where she asked her friend, Fatima, to inform her family of the incident and to pray for her. Meanwhile, a competent source, who preferred anonymity, narrated the current dismal situation in Rann, saying the fate of over 50,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) at Rann camp was uncertain. According to him, the IDPs are left on their own without support and provisions, forcing  some of them to walk about 35km from Rann to Ngala in search of safety, shelter, water, food, and other needs. “Since the attack, only the caretaker chairman of Kala/Balge has visited the area even though he can’t make any meaningful change on the IDPs’ situation. “As a matter of urgency, I call on the authorities concerned to provide basic amenities to those in Rann as well as those that have migrated to Ngala,” the source pleaded. He added that some of those who moved to Ngala were accommodated at Arabic Village IDPs camp in Ngala, containing over 100,000 households, was already overcrowded, causing them to struggle for basic amenities. “The IDPs have to trek about a mile to CBDA Quarters to fetch water. Sadly the only water source in the whole of Ngala town is single borehole owned by CBDA drilled about 25 years ago. “ In whole, it’s very unhealthy situation which needs urgent attention,” the source lamented.