A number of senior lawyers in the country have urged President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint a substantive chief judge for the Federal High Court to prevent a constitutional crisis arising from the court staying without a judicial administrator or head. They made this call following the expiry today of the tenure of Justice Abdul Kafarati as the acting chief judge of the Federal High Court. LEADERHIP Friday reports that the appointment of a chief judge on acting capacity can only last for three months according to the provisions of the constitution. Justice Kafarati was appointed on September 16, 2017 to act as the chief judge for three months. His acting capacity was subsequently renewed for another three months and expires today. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that the Senate had last week urged President Muhammadu Buhari to forward the nomination of Justice Abdu Kafarati to the upper legislative chamber for approval as substantive chief judge of the Federal High Court to avoid a constitutional crisis. The Senate President, Bukola Saraki, had noted that the Federal High Court could not be left to stay without a chief judge. “The time to do the needful by the executive is fast running out. Once the Presidency forwards his name to this chamber, his confirmation or approval will be made in dispatch to avoid a crisis.” The Senate resolution followed the motion moved by the chairman of the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator David Umaru (Niger East), to draw the attention of his colleagues to looming crisis in the Federal High Court. Some senior lawyers in Nigeria have added their voices to this imminent constitutional impasse. The lawyers averred that the immediate implication is that the judgements, judicial decisions, affidavit or legal instruments from the Federal High Court would be riddled with contentions or disputes for the period the court would stay without a head, or lawful judicial administrator. They insisted that if the CJ’s appointment becomes voided by want of time, anything he does, superintend upon or sign is a nullity in the eyes of the law, and litigants can rely on that to ask for the instruments or judgement to be quashed at higher courts. The lawyers, who spoke with LEADERSHIP Friday yesterday, include former president of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Olisa Agbakogba (SAN), President Muhammadu Buhari’s former lawyer, Mike Ahamba (SAN), Emeka Ngige (SAN),  Niyi Akintola (SAN), Alasa Ismail and Abubakar H. Sani They said that Section 250 (4) & (5) was explicit with regards to the appointment of the chief judge of the Federal High Court. Following the failure of the Presidency to nominate a successor to the former chief judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Ibrahim Auta who was due to retire on Saturday September 16, 2017, the chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, on the same day, swore in Justice Abdul Kafarati as the acting chief judge of the Federal High Court. Justice Kafarati was then the next most senior justice of that court of first instance in the country. In his remark after administering the oath, the CJN had said, “The Federal High Court is a very critical court in the jurisprudence of Nigeria. It is very strategic,” adding that the swearing-in was done on a weekend to avoid a vacuum in the leadership of the high court. “That is why we are here today. Even if it had not been done before, it has been done now,” Justice Onnoghen quipped. Some of the lawyers held that the appointment of the chief judge on acting capacity ought not to lapse beyond three months, just as the state House of Assembly speaker is sworn in as acting governor of state for a maximum of three months. They drew the attention of President Buhari to Section 250 (5) which directed that the appointment of the Federal High Court chief judge on acting capacity shall cease to have effect after the expiration of three months. Some of the lawyers said the option left for the president was to appoint the next most senior justice of the Federal High Court after Justice Kafarati to take over as the chief judge from today. This is just as others held that Justice Kafarati could be appointed for the third time on acting capacity on the grounds that Justice Onnoghen stayed on acting capacity as CJN for more than four months before he was sworn-in as substantive CJN. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that Justice Onnoghen was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari on November 10, 2016 as the acting CJN, but it was not until February 7, 2017 that his name was sent to the Senate for confirmation. He was consequently sworn in as the substantive CJN by the then Acting President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) on March 7, 2017. Olisa Agbakoba said: “President Buhari should simply appoint Kafarati substantive chief judge, and to act immediately, otherwise NJC may be unable to extend acting capacity and this will leave the Federal High Court without a head or it will mean Kafarati is out of consideration and his junior will be appointed to act. This will make things very awkward for all concerned, in particular Kafarati’’ On his part, Chief Mike Ahamba noted that leaving the court witout a CJ was akin to having a state without a governor. He said: “It is wrong to appoint the chief judge on acting capacity beyond three months. It has to be discouraged for CJs to be appointed to act even for a day. A lot of people behave as if there is no constitution in the country. The law or the constitution is crystal clear: for a Federal High Court to stay without a CJ is like a state in Nigeria staying without a governor. “The speaker, for instance, can only act for three months in the absence of substantive state governor, and that is also applicable to a CJ on acting capacity. The CJ of the Federal High Court can only act for a maximum of three months. We just have to respect the constitution in the interest of peace and harmony in the country’’, Ahamba said. Another senior lawyer, Chief Emeka Ngige noted that the culture of appointing chief executives of the courts for a period longer than the constitution stipulated was not a new one. “It has happened before with the appointment of the current CJN, Justice Onnoghen, who acted for more than four months. What NJC has to do is to renew Justice Kafarati’s appointment pending when the president will forward his name to the Senate,’’ he said. Niyi Akintola, another senior advocate, concurred, saying that Kafarati “acting appointment should be renewed to avoid lacuna.’’ For Barrister Alasa Ismail, the situation, if allowed to linger, would cause a whole lot of confusion in justice administration. Ismail said, “The immediate implication is that the judgements, judicial decisions, affidavit or legal instruments from the Federal High Court will be riddled with contentions or disputes for the period this court may stay without a head, or lawful judicial administrator’’. On his part, Abubakar H. Sani spoke on the fate of the acting chief judge, Kafarati: “It means that even though he remains a judge of the Federal High Court, he is no longer the chief judge automatically and by effusion of time,” he said, adding that the constitution was explicit on the procedure for the appointment of the chief judge.  NJC recommends sack of 2 judges The National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended the compulsory retirement of two judges from Abia State judiciary. The two affected judges are the chief judge of Abia State, Theresa Uzokwe, and Obisike Oji of Abia State High Court. The council also set up a “committee to investigate a Supreme Court Justice and two state chief judges”. According to a statement ‎from the office of the director of information of the council, Mr. Soji Oye, the NJC recommended the retirement of Ms. Uzokwe following the recommendation of two panels that investigated allegations against her. Apart from the two justices that were recommended for retirement, the NJC also issued “stern warnings to Justices Sunday Aladetoyinbo and Olusola Ajibike Williams of FCT and Lagos High Courts.” Part of the statement reads, “The NJC under the chairmanship of the Honourable Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onnoghen, GCON, at its 85th meeting which was held on the 14th of March, 2018, recommended the compulsory retirement of Hon. Mr Justice Theresa Uzokwe, Chief Judge, and Hon. Mr. Justice Obisike Oji of Abia State High Court of Justice, to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State. “The council also issued stern warnings to Justices S. E. Aladetoyinbo and Olusola Ajibike Williams of the FCT and Lagos State High Courts. “Hon  Mr Justice Theresa Uzokwe was recommended for compulsory retirement following the findings of two investigative committees set up by the council. The committees investigated petitions against her by Umeh Kalu, SAN, Attorney-General/Commissioner for Justice of Abia State, alleging illegal constitution and working with a parallel Judicial Service Commission instead of the one constituted by the state governor and confirmed by the House of Assembly. “Hon. Mr Justice Uzokwe was also found to have misconducted himself in Suit No. HU/131/2005, wherein he delivered judgement in the sum of N825, 000 only in favour of a litigant, but subsequently signed a garnishee order of N109, 612, 500 (One Hundred and Nine Million, Six Hundred and Twelve Thousand, Five Hundred Naira). “Hon. Mr Justice Obisike Oji was earlier queried by the Council for allowing himself to be sworn-in as acting chief judge, and thereby colluding in and aiding an unconstitutional process. His reply was unsatisfactory and the council recommended his compulsory retirement”. ‎Soji Oye said during the meeting, the council also considered various petitions written against 31 judicial officers and resolved to empanel three investigative committees against one justice of Supreme Court and two state chief judges. He said petitions against various justices were dismissed either for lack of merit, lack of evidence of misconduct, being sub judice or that the subject of such petitions were matters for appeal. The dismissed petitions were against Justices Abdu Aboki, Theresa Abadua and Ahmed Belgore all of the Court of Appeal;  Justices J. T. Tsoho, Ayo Emmanuel, Sabiu Yahusa, Zainab B. Abubakar, B. O. Quadri of the Federal High Court; Justices A. N. Ubaka and B. B. Kanyip of National Industrial Court; Justices Bello Kawu, S. C. Orji, A. N. Talba of the FCT High Court;  Justice K. C. Nwankpa of High Court Abia State; Justice D. A. Onyefulu of High Court Anambra State; Justice W. I. A. Effiong High Court Akwa Ibom State, and  A. M. Ikpambese, High Court of Benue State. Others are Justice G. E. Gbemre, High Court of Delta State; Justice A. O. Onovo, High Court of Enugu State; Justice Idi Apollos, High Court of Gombe State; Justice G. O. Ogunsanya, High Court of Ogun State; Justice A. B. Abdulkarim, High Court of Osun State; Justice K. A. Ojiako, High Court, Imo State and Justices A. M. Lawal, L. A. Okunnu and L. B. Lawal Akapo, High Court of Lagos State. He added: “Council decided to advise Hon. Mr. Justice J. E. Ikede of Delta State High Court and Hon. Mr. Justice Yusuf Halilu of FCT High Court to be more careful in the course of their judicial duties. However, not all the cases were reprimands. The NJC also recommended 60 judicial officers to governors of 24 states for appointment as high court judges, Sharia Court Kadis and Customary Court of Appeal Judges, he said.