The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola has directed that contractors handling road projects in the country use stone base instead of latrite base. The minister who handed down the directive yesterday, in Kano while inspecting works on the Dualisation of the Kano-Kastina Road project phase I said it is more economical to use the stone base to avoid short time repairs or reconstruction, saying that is cheaper in the long run. “Put the stone base once and for all. Stop construction on latrite base; it becomes more expensive overtime. If you do the stone base now for the remaining section, know that in future when the wearing course slacks, you just lay and relay, and that is cheaper in the long run. When the latrite base begins to fail, that is the beginning of the failure of the new alignment which you are doing now will start; so lets do it well, not to give room for patching in the short run. “Of importance is that it has been discovered that existing lane to be rehabilitated has latrite base, and that calls for recouping and replacing it with stone base as used for the new lane so that they are substantially of the same material that will endure,” the Minister said. Contract for dualisation of the 74km Kano-Kastina road which used to be single lane was awarded to Messrs CCECC Nig. Ltd to the tune of N14 billion on the 24th December, 2015 after which work commenced 30th January, 2015 with an initial completion date of 29th June, 2016 which was later extended to 31st December, 2018. It is now at about 26% completion with a time lapse of 68%. Before that the Minster, with his entourage, inspected Kano Western Bypass whose contractor is Messrs Dantata and Sawoe Ltd whose completion has been long overdue. According to the contractor, it was lack of funding that caused the long delay. Works on the contract which was awarded at an initial sum of N13 billion (later reviewed twice to N22 billion) in 2006 commenced in on the 20th May, 2007 with an initial completion date of 19th May, 2010 and later extended several times to 7th October, 2017, now at an overall completion stage of 43% with a time lapse of 115%.