An Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) investigation officer, Tosin Owobo yesterday narrated to the Federal High Court in Lagos how the anti-graft agency allegedly recovered N2.4 billion and $115,000 from former Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Adesola Amosu. Owobo, a prosecution witness in the trial, told the trial judge, Justice Mohammed Idris that Amosu returned the N2.4billion via bank drafts at the agency’s Lagos and Abuja offices, while the sum of $115,000 was recovered in one of the retired military officer’s residences. Amosu, was arraigned on June 29, 2016 by the EFCC alongside two senior serving Air Force officers, Air Vice Marshal Jacob Bola Adigun and Air Commodore Gbadebo Owodunni Olugbenga and seven companies before Justice Mohammed Idris. Companies named in the charge are Delfina Oil and Gas Ltd, Mcallan Oil And Gas Ltd, Hebron Housing and Properties Company Ltd, Trapezites BDC, Fonds and Pricey Ltd, Deegee Oil and Gas Ltd, Timsegg Investment Ltd and Solomon Health Care Ltd. The EFCC accused them of conspiracy, stealing, money laundering, concealing of proceeds of crime and conversion of funds belonging to the Nigerian Airforce to their personal use around March 5, 2014 in Lagos. They were also accused of concealing “proceeds of crime” and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act, 2012 and punishable under Section 17(a). However, the defendants had pleaded not guilty to the charges, a development which made the trial judge, Justice Mohammed Idris to grant  Amosun, Adigun and Olugbenga bail in the sum of N500million each with two sureties in like sum. Owobo, while being led in evidence by the prosecuting counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, said that money, cars and landed property were seized from the defendants. The witness stated, “About N100million was recovered from the third defendant Air Commodore Gbadebo. Funds were also left over in St Solomon’s UBA account, recovered through the first defendant’s wife. “About N383 million was recovered through the first defendant’s wife. The first defendant (Amosu) also refunded two bank drafts of N2.4 billion in our Lagos and Abuja offices. We recovered $115,000 in one of the first defendant’s residences.” Owobo listed the recovered vehicles to include a bulletproof Lexus LX 570, a bulletproof Landcruiser Sports Utility Vehicle and a Toyota Avalon. He added: “Various landed property and buildings were recovered from the second defendant.” Justice Idris has fixed April 18 for continuation of trial.