Operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) have bust an EIYE confraternity gang involved in human trafficking in Spain. NAPTIP hinted yesterday that 39 women victims of sexual exploitation were rescued in the operation, which was conducted jointly with the operatives of the National Crime Agency (NCA) of the British Government and Guardia Civil, the Spanish Law Enforcement Agency, France. This was contained in a statement signed by the head, Press and Public Relations of the agency, Josiah Emerole, and made available to LEADERSHIP Weekend. The statement noted: “The victims, all Nigerian nationals and many under the age of 18, are believed to have undergone ‘Voodoo-Juju’ rituals in Nigeria to coerce them if they did not comply with orders given by the gang leaders. They were then moved by boat to Libya and Italy, before arriving in Spain”. NAPTIP further revealed that the women were forced to live in cave-like houses, in unsafe and unsanitary conditions, unable to leave and sexually exploited for the sole purpose of financial gain for the gang leaders, with all money eventually ending up in their hands in Nigeria. The statement further revealed that the international investigation into the organised criminal network began when a victim made a report to the Spanish authorities, detailing how she arrived in Spain along with a number of other girls. Money from the trafficking, the agency revealed is laundered, through the honour-based Hawala system, popular with organised crime gangs. “Investigators found the gang had numerous women under their control working as prostitutes to pay off their debts with Eiye Confraternity – upwards of 30,000 euros each – for the cost of moving the victims into Europe”, the agency added. It stated that NCA officers worked with partners to develop intelligence on the network, including carrying out surveillance on those suspected to be involved and working with NAPTIP colleagues to build up information about the scale of the abuse and exploitation. “The investigation was aided in Nigeria by NAPTIP investigators who are members of the British assisted Joint Border Task Force (JBTF) who travelled to Spain to participate and support the Guardia Civil and NCA during the arrest phases”, it further noted. Josiah said, “A total of 89 people – including the leader of the gang had been arrested on suspicion of association to criminal organisations, modern slavery and money laundering. Forty three remain on remand in prison in Spain, following raids at 41 addresses across the country in November last year”. On 16 January 2018, NCA officers also arrested an alleged Nigerian Madame living in Middleton, Greater Manchester, believed to be controlling some of the victims in Spain, and paying money to the Organised Criminal Gang (OCG) back in Nigeria. She is said to be presently in custody awaiting extradition to Spain where she faces prosecution. Reacting to the development, the Director-General of NAPTIP, Dame Julie Okah-Donli expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the joint operations. She said that the outcome was in line with her vision of pursuing human traffickers who are Nigerian nationals to any part of the world where they may be operating. ‘’Like I said in my Maiden Press Conference, if we miss them here on their way out they will meet us waiting for them on arrival at destination’’, she added. She also expressed appreciation to the British and Spanish Law Enforcement Agencies for the confidence reposed on NAPTIP Agents in working together in such joint operations. On her part,  deputy director, Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking threat lead for the NCA, Tom Dowdall, said: “This was a complex and extensive operation with deep-rooted organisation both in Nigeria and Spain. Eiye Confraternity was a highly organised crime gang, exploiting young woman for lengthy periods of time, keeping them in horrendous conditions where they knew there would be no escape. “The NCA’s international reach was crucial to this success, and we will continue to work with agencies in Nigeria and Spain to bring those responsible through the court system. Modern slavery remains a priority for UK law enforcement.” The NCA said police had also arrested a Nigerian woman in Manchester this year who they believe was controlling some of the victims in Spain, even as it noted that she is in custody awaiting extradition to Spain. European Police (Europol) said raids were carried out across 11 Spanish cities last November but the operation could not be announced until Thursday to avoid jeopardizing investigations. Europol disclosed Eiye operated in clandestine groups all over the world, funding the brotherhood in Nigeria through both legal and illicit activities, particularly through human trafficking. …Another 149 Nigerians Return From Libya Meanwhile, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has received 149 Nigerians who voluntarily returned from Libya. The returnees arrived at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, aboard a chartered flight operated by Buraq Airline with registration number 5A-DMG, which landed at about 10:45pm at the Cargo Wing of the airport. The programme manager of International Organisation for Migration (IOM), Lagos, Abrham Tamrat, handed over the returnees who include 107 male adults, 37 female adults including a medical case, four female children and one female infant to Yakubu Suleiman, the South West Zonal Coordinator of NEMA. Suleiman thanked the IOM and the European Union (EU) for facilitating the repatriation of the Nigerians who had been stranded en route from Libya to Europe. He admonished the returnees to shun the urge of seeking greener pastures outside the country. He said all nations in the world were facing various challenges as a result of global economic meltdown. “Nigeria has more than enough resources to cater for our needs but it is left for every one of us to tap from any of these abundant resources,” Suleiman said. He said both the federal and state governments had lots of incentives for their rehabilitation and reintegration to complement the efforts of EU and IOM. Also speaking, Tamat said the IOM had assisted over 7,000 Nigerians back from Libya under the voluntary return assistance programme and would continue to assist persons who indicate interest to return. The returnees were also received by officials of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the Nigeria Police. Telecommunications company, Airtel, in collaboration with the office of the senior special assistant to the president on Diaspora and Foreign Affairs, also gave the returnees free mobile cellphones and sim cards to facilitate their reintegration. 195 Nigerians Jailed For Drug Related Offence In Morocco Meanwhile,  the Nigerian Ambassador to Morocco, Baba Garba, has said there are 195 Nigerians in prisons in Morocco for drug-related crimes. Garba noted that the Nigerian government does not have a prisoner transfer agreement with Morocco. He said, “We have the menace of Nigerians that come from Latin America, transiting Morocco that are carriers of drugs. We have a number of them in prisons purely for drugs. I send the figures officially to government; there are 195 of them in prisons. “We have a bi-national commission and we are proposing end of June or the first week of July because of the Ramadan. It is at this forum we will talk to our Moroccan counterparts about a prisoner transfer agreement but at this point we do not have such agreement.” The envoy, however, said there is an excellent relationship between both countries, adding that the outcome of the visit of the Moroccan king to Nigeria in 2016 had boost bilateral relations. “Since 2017 up until now, we have not had farmers complain about shortage of fertiliser in NIgeria; this is one of the gains. We have had many agreements signed with Morocco in different sectors and we are pursuing them. We have have had agreements signed in transport, climate change, lagoon and river control”, he added He further noted that about 50 students from Nigeria are being offered scholarships by the Moroccan government. The ambassador said, “Some students are trained in Qur’anic recitation and trained to be Imams; here the king is a leader of the faith and every mosque here is well documented and there are checks and balances. If we have such systems imported in our country it will checkmate certain things”.