In furtherance of the party’s ongoing reconciliation process ahead of the 2019 general election, the highest decision making bodies of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) will meet today and tomorrow respectively, with the tenure elongation controversy as the prime in their agenda. LEADERSHIP gathered that top on the agenda for discussions at the two separate meetings of the party caucus billed to hold today in Aso Rock presidential villa and National Executive Committee (NEC) scheduled for tomorrow is the consideration of the appropriateness or otherwise of setting up a national caretaker committee to run the affairs of the party. This followed the controversy generated by the party’s earlier decision to extend the tenure of the party’s leadership both at the state and national levels by one year. The party had come under intense fire after its last NEC meeting held a month ago where the decision on the one-year tenure elongation for the Chief John Odigie Oyegun led National Working Committee (NWC) and state executive committees of the party with effect from June 2018 was taken. It was learnt that the party might consider ditching the nomenclature of ‘tenure elongation’ for a ‘caretaker committee’, which may involve the present NWC members as currently constituted when their term expires in June this year. Findings also revealed that the party’s national convention and the flag-bearer for the party ahead of the 2019 presidential election will be a hot topic for debate and deliberations at the meetings. President Muhammdu Buhari is yet to declare his intention to run for a second term, a development that is getting party bigwigs worried about the preparedness of the party for the general election. A reliable source in the party howevere told our correspondent that majority of the APC governors are willing to work with Chief Odigie-Oyegun. The source who did not want his name in print said, “I am aware that several of the governors want to work with Chief Oyegun because of his disposition and the way he handles issues, but you as well as I, know where the pressure is coming from. “I am also aware that some National Assembly members will be interested to see the party leadership change. It is a very dicey situation”. There are also reports that the move to institute a caretaker committee is allegedly targeted at a section of the party that is opposed to the tenure extension of the Oyegun-led NWC. But since February 27 when the Oyegun-led leadership of the party received an overwhelming support to stay on for another one year, the head of the Peace and Reconciliation committee setup by President Muhammdu Buhari and headed by former Lagos State governor, Bola Ahmed TInubu has maintained an awkward silent, thus fueling speculations that he is aggrieved with the decision. Tinubu and the party chairman, Oyegun, have been at loggerheads since last year, with many wondering how effective the committee would carry out its assignment when the two party chieftains are not in good terms. Efforts to get a response from the party through the national publicity secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, did not yield result.