 Human Right lawyer, Barrister Maxwell Opara has accused Nigerian military of being in possession of the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu whose whereabouts is unknown. Speaking to journalists in Abuja, Opara alleged that the military who raided Kanu’s compound should account for his whereabouts, insisting that the military violated the bail condition by the judge. He noted that  out of the 28 persons that were killed, the military took away 13 corpses wondering whether Nnamdi Kanu or other members of his family were among those taken away after the operation. Opara said,  “When the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria said that Nnamdi Kanu violated his bail conditions which is normal, yes they have the right to say it. They went further to apply for summons asking the court to revoke the bail of Nnamdi Kanu. While we are waiting to hear their application on the 7th of October, 2017, the military went to his house on the 11th September with an armored car and besieged the place and people were asking why, why? Why should that happen? “They left only for them to come back on the 14th September 2017 and killed every living thing in that house- dog, fowl, lizard, human being- everything they killed, 28 persons were killed and they left with their copses. I am talking about the Nigerian Army. Since then, we have not heard of Nnamdi Kanu. We heard of him last when he called the principal Counsel Ejiofor complaining of the way his house was surrounded by the military. When Ejiofor started calling the line back, up till now, it could not go through. Whether he is dead or alive we do not know.” The activist lawyer queried why nobody was asking the military authorities about Kanu’s whereabouts, adding the operation was uncalled for since it was neither a war situation nor was there any need for arresting or producing Kanu which failed. He noted that if Kanu posed any threat, he would have been arrested by the Abia State commissioner or the director of State Security Services (SSS) in the state. Arguing that the federal government was in violation of the bail conditions granted to Kanu, Opara stated: “ It is a very simple thing. Why are we being naïve? Why are Nigerians behaving like this? Even the journalists are not helping matters. Nobody has gone to ask the Chief of Army Staff or Director of Military Intelligence or the Army Public Relations Officer, why should they bring armoured car to his compound?” On the fate of those who took the IPOB leader on bail, Barrister Opara stated: “They have a very simple case, you can’t intimidate them. Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe has filed his action asking the army to produce Kanu.”