It was victory a dance for the ruling Edo State All Progressive Congress, APC, as the party cleared the entire 18 local government areas of the state in the Saturday conducted election Results declared by the Edo State Independent Electoral Commission showed that the APC defeated nine other political parties that participated in the election with a wide margin. Political parties that took part in the election include the ruling All Progressive Congress, (APC), Action Democratic Party, (ADP), Labor Party, (LP), Democratic Alternatives, (DA), Green Party of Nigeria, (GPN), Democratic Peoples Party, (DPP), National Conscience Party, (NCP), Social Democratic Party,(SDP) Peoples for Democratic Change, (PDC) and Progressive People Alliance, (PPA) However, the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party boycotted the election and rather instituted legal action challenging the processes leading to the conduct of the election. The election was generally peaceful across the state and witnessed huge turnout of voters in areas monitored by our reporter. Announcing the results, Chairman of the Edo State Independent Electoral Commission, Prof. Stanley Orobator, said the Certificate of Return would be presented to the winners on Monday. Prof. Orobator refused to disclose how much was spent to conduct the polls as he directed journalists to check the state annual budget. Chieftain of the APC in Esan North East, Prince Joe Okojie, described the outcome of the election as a death knell of the PDP in the state. Prince Okojie said the PDP willingly opted out of the polls because it did not want to exposed itself to its national officers that the party is depleted. Meanwhile, Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that the new helmsmen at the local councils in Edo State will deepen his brand of strategic leadership at the 18 local councils, to ensure that those at the grassroots enjoy result-oriented governance. The governor, who said this during a Thanksgiving Service at the St. Paul’s Catholic Church, Airport Road, Benin City, on Sunday, stressed that the ‘wake and see’ phenomenon of leadership will now be felt by those at the grassroots across the state. Speaking after the service, Obaseki said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will introduce the same quality of service he is pioneering at the state level, in the local government through the new chairmen and councilors. According to him, “That is why our party, the APC, decided to field candidates we know are very credible, and are people with experience to take charge of the affairs of our local government areas. “So, we are quite excited and happy, and assure the people of Edo State that the new heads at the local governments will render services to the people that will surpass what they have seen before. We will want to deepen the ‘Wake and See’ concept of programme execution. We want to make sure that the same spirit gets to the local government areas,” he added. Some of the elected council chairman are, Mrs. Eghe Ogbemudia (Egor) Destiny Enabulele(Ovia South West) Patrick Aguinede (Esan West) Musa Yakubu (Estako West) Esan Central (Waziri Idemudia) Joseph Odia (Igueben) Frank Ilaboya (Owan West) Emuakhagbon Victor (Esan South East) Jelkins Osunde (Oredo) Dr. Eric Osayande (Ikpoba-Okha) Ogbemudia Osaze (Ovia North East) Andrew Osigwe (Owan East) and Sylvester Okoro(Orhiomwon)