The national chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and Katsina State governor, Aminu Bello Masari, yesterday received over 350,000 defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other opposition parties in Katsina State. LEADERSHIP Sunday checks revealed that among the top politicians that formally declared for the ruling party at the Katsina APC Grand Mega Rally 2018 are no fewer than four former governorship aspirants of the PDP, APGA and ANPP. They are Senator Ibrahim Ida, Col. Abdulaziz Musa Yar’Adua, Engr. Nura Khalil and Ibrahim Umaru Tsauri, popularly called Tata in the state. Others include two-time speaker of the Katsina State House of Assembly, Umar Ya’um Gwajo-Gwajo; his onetime deputy, Bikyaminu Abdulkadir Rimi; former director-general of SMEDAN and director general of 2015 Katsina PDP governorship campaign, Bature Umar Masari; and the Katsina chairman of Peoples Democratic Movement (PMD), Dr. Yusha’u Armaya’u. Speaking at the event held at Muhammad Lawal Kaita Polo Ground, Katsina, the APC national chairman, Oyegun, remarked that the quality and number of the defectors joining the party showed that PDP and other opposition parties in the state had virtually fizzled out. “Let me take pride in welcoming the hundreds of thousands of people who are joining the APC. It shows PDP is dead and buried in Katsina State,” said Oyegun. Justifying the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari for 2019 by the mammoth crowd, Oyegun stated: “I have received a lot of decampees; this one (event) today is special. Congratulations, the people of Katsina State. What I am seeing today is a sign that you approve of your governor, Aminu Bello Masari, and that this is the state of the president. “It is a sign that you also approve of what President Muhammadu Buhari is doing. I am going back to Abuja with the message that the people of this state and country are behind the president.” He assured the defectors that they would have a place of honour in APC and urged the Katsina electorate to cast all their votes for the party in next year’s polls. In his address, the state governor, Masari, described the defectors as distinguished Nigerians who had succeeded in different fields of endeavours and who left their former parties to join the APC, motivated by the successes of the party. The governor thanked Oyegun and the APC NWC for honouring the state with their presence, and said Katsina people would do whatever is necessary to ensure the success of APC next year. “We are working hard to ensure that between 80 to 90 per cent of registered voters cast their votes for Buhari and APC. We are determined to ensure that no part of the state will be left behind in the task to deliver Nigerians from darkness,” he said.