President Muhammadu Buhari has said the federal government is ready to offer amnesty to Boko Haram members who lay down their arms and show genuine repentance. The president also warned security chiefs against dereliction of duty, saying any of them who approaches his assigned task with levity and gives room for lapses would be punished. The president made the comments yesterday when he received the released schoolgirls from Government Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, at the presidential villa, Abuja. In his address, the president also warned that security agencies would deal severely with those he described as “unscrupulous characters” who make political fortune out of school girls’ abductions in the country. He said, “While further efforts are being made to secure the release of every abducted citizen in Nigeria, government is ever ready to accept the unconditional laying down of arms by members of the Boko Haram group, who show strong commitment in this regard. We are ready to rehabilitate and integrate such repentant members into the larger society. “This country has suffered enough of hostility. Government is, therefore, appealing to all to embrace peace for the overall development of our people and the country. “I have tasked all the security agencies to work to ensure that we do not witness any recurrence of these incidents. Security chiefs have been warned in clear terms that any lapse on their part will be viewed seriously.” LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that the girls were abducted a month ago by Boko Haram insurgents and were released on Wednesday. The president affirmed that Boko Haram insurgents released the Dapchi schoolgirls on Wednesday unconditionally after painstaking back-channel negotiations. According to him, government opted for negotiations because it did not want any of the girls to get hurt, a strategy that has paid off. He also urged insurgents operating in the North East to cease hostilities and surrender, stating that his government was ready to accept the unconditional laying down of arms by members of the Boko Haram group who show strong commitment to do so. He said: “I am delighted to formally announce to Nigerians this morning and our international friends and partners that 107 Dapchi students previously abducted have been unconditionally released by their abductors. “This cheering and hearty development signifies our commitment to the security and well-being of all Nigerians. “We are never in doubt about our focus and direction since the assumption of office of this administration. Security, anti-corruption and revamping of our economy are the main focus of our government. “You will recall that on the 14th of this month (March), I paid a visit to Yobe State during which I sympathised with the parents, families, government and people of the state for the tragic abduction of the students in Dapchi. “I made a solemn pledge on my word of honour that this administration would do everything possible to ensure the unconditional release of the girls. “I further tasked all the appropriate security agencies to safely bring back the girls. We also reached out to our contacts at home and abroad. We embarked on back-channel shuttles with a clear view to bring to an end this tragedy. “We entered into negotiations solely to make sure that not a single girl was hurt. This strategy paid off as the girls have been released without any incidents,” he said. President Buhari reiterated his administration’s commitment to the fight against terrorism and insurgency, even as he called on Nigerians to join in this task. He further directed the security agencies to apply measures that would safeguard schools vulnerable to attacks to ensure the safety of pupils, students, teachers and school workers. “To the rescued students, we want to reassure you, as our daughters, that you will freely live and pursue your dreams in Nigeria of peace and order, without fear of violence or molestation,” he said. To Chibok, another community in the North East which had earlier suffered a similar fate to Dapchi but which still has a large number of their girls in captivity, the president urged the affected parents not to lose hope, as he restated the determination of his administration to bring the remaining Chibok girls home. He said, “While parents of the Dapchi girls rejoice because of the reunion with their children, I want to appeal to the Chibok community never to lose hope or to despair. We are determined, as never before, to bring back our remaining Chibok daughters; and this we must accomplish. And that will be soon by God’s grace. The president also had a warning for those who may seek to make political capital out of the unfortunate incident. “May I also warn those elements who have chosen to make political fortune of our citizens’ misfortune. Government would not tolerate any attempt by any person or group to trivialise or politicise security issues for politically motivated ends. Accordingly, security agencies would not hesitate to decisively deal with such unscrupulous characters.” He thanked Nigerians, the security agencies and international figures who helped in one way or another to ensure the safe return of the girls. The director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS), Lawal Daura, who presented the schoolgirls to the president, noted that  some government officials  who  were not competent to comment on the issues and the social media nearly  marred the rescue effort. Despite these challenges, Daura said the DSS managed to successfully conclude the operation in line with the presidential directive to use peaceful options to ensure the timely and safe release of the students. He said, “The exercise was arduous and quite challenging. The sensitivity of the operation and some uncertainties surrounding it, particularly routes to be used, nature of transportation, realisation and concern that the girls were not kept at one place, issues of encountering military checkpoints within the theatre and indeed keeping the operation on strictly the ‘principle of need-to-know’ made the whole exercise more complicating.” According to him, beyond the release of the abducted girls, the DSS’  primary interest for engaging in the dialogue was informed by certain professional considerations, including permanent, possible cessation of hostilities; discussing the fate of the arrested insurgents and innocent Nigerian citizens being held hostage, and the possibility of granting amnesty to repentant insurgents. “These presently seem problematic because the insurgents are factionalised while holding various spheres of influence in their guerrilla controlled enclaves,” he added. Giving further insight into what transpired during the negotiations, the DSS boss revealed that “the insurgents’ only condition was their demand for cessation of hostilities and temporary ceasefire to enable them return the girls at the point they picked them. “They required assurances that the government’s security forces would keep to this.” He added that the released Dapchi schoolgirls were later taken into a DSS medical facility, given mental evaluation conducted by trained specialists and put through programmes to give them psychological stability. “About four of them who were discovered to have broken limbs were sent for X-ray. Almost all of them had one skin infection or the other having not taken bath for over a month. “They have been medically examined and those with ailments were treated. The measures are to ensure that they are in good health. “The girls, including four representatives of their school, the principal and vice principal as well as their parents were brought into the medical facility as part of measures to relieve tension and anxiety. The presence of these representatives further re-assured and stabilised the girls,” Daura said. On the way forward, the DSS director-general urged the federal government to sustain and intensify efforts towards ensuring the release of all abducted persons in the North East. LEADERSHIP Weekend reports that apart from the Dapchi girls, the DSS boss also handed over to President Buhari two young pupils, Hafsat Haruna, 11, and Mala Maina Bukar,13, both of them primary six pupils. Daura, who stated that six of the Dapchi schoolgirls were yet to be accounted for, however, gave assurance that dialogue was ongoing on their cases. Others who were on hand to witness the hand-over of the released captives were the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Mongunu (rtd); chief of defence staff, General Gabriel Olonishakin;  minister of defence, Brigadier-General Mansur Dan-Ali (rtd); chief of army staff, Lt General Tukur Buratai; chief of the naval staff,  Ibok Ibas, and chief of air staff, Sadiq Ibrahim. Also present were secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; attorney-general of the federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami;  minister of information and culture, Lai Mohammed and minister of interior, Gen Abdulrahman Danbazau (rtd). Meanwhile, few hours after President Buhari offered a conditional amnesty for Boko Haram members in the country, some lawyers have described the development as a welcome one if the members of terror group would embrace it. An Abuja-based lawyer, Adeagbo Abdul, said he agreed with the president totally on the declaration of amnesty for the sect’s members. He said, “It is a welcome development and it is long overdue if it will bring an end to insurgency in the country.” Anothers lawyer, Ahmed Yusuf, said anything that would make the militants surrender their arms and end the killings in the country was welcome. “We can’t continue like this. There must be an end to the activities of Boko Haram in the country. If the declaration of amnesty for them will bring peace, I think it should be welcomed,” he said. A Lagos-based lawyer, Awodele John Kennedy, noted that it was not the first time the insurgents would be offered amnesty. According to him, the last administration was also ready to offer them amnesty but they refused to show up. ”I remember (that) former President Goodluck Jonathan was ready to give them amnesty but they could not come out to publicly accept it. It is not enough to offer amnesty; they (insurgents) also should be ready to embrace it.” On its part, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has expressed worry that Leah Sharibu, the Christian girl amongst the Dapchi schoolgirls, remains in captivity for refusing to denounce her faith. “The association, is however, deeply worried, surprised and disappointed that not all the girls were rescued and indeed, that one of them was left behind simply because of her Christian faith,” CAN said.. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, signed by the media adviser to the CAN president, Pastor Bayo Oladeji, the Christian body rejoiced with the families of the girls who regained their freedom from Boko Haram captivity. The statement also condemned the political intrigues that have trailed the return of the 104 Dapchi schoolgirls. The group called on the federal government to, as a matter of national importance, set up a judicial panel of enquiry to investigate the abduction and release of the schoolgirls and to make the report public. “CAN condemns in strong terms the politicisation of the abduction and release of the innocent Dapchi schoolgirls, appealing to politicians to live up to the expectation in the discharge of their official assignments. “The federal government should set up a high-powered judicial panel to investigate the abduction of the schoolgirls with a view to unmasking those behind the abduction and make them face the full wrath of the law. “The National Assembly should conduct a public hearing on the Dapchi abduction saga to expose any cover-up,” it said. CAN also urged the federal government ensure the immediate release of the remaining Chibok girls in Boko Haram captivity, just as it urged better service from the security agencies. “We once again demand a total re-organisation of the security agencies aligned with professionalism that will make them respond rapidly to security challenges in any part of the country. We desire a proactive security system,” it added. CAN also demanded the release of the names of the five girls that reportedly died in captivity, adding that compensation be paid to the bereaved parents.