Senate President, Bukola Saraki is not privy to the meeting of Northern Elders where certain decisions about the political future of the region and country were taken, a source close to  Saraki has revealed. Northern elders and leaders had met, weekend, and declared that they were searching for good candidates who, when elected, would utilize their offices to uplift the living standard of the people of the regions. Arising from a summit of northern groups yesterday, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF) and 16 other leading groups in the region expressed dissatisfaction with the present administration and politicians from the northern region. Our sister publication, LEADERSHP Sunday learnt that after extensive deliberations, the summit resolved that the president and other politicians from the region had failed the north in the area of security and economy. The position of the summit was contained in a four-page communiqué, which was read by the chief of staff to the Senate president, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed. However, the fact that Baba-Ahmed, an aide of the senate president read the communiqué had sent tongues wagging with allegations rife that he may well be doing the bidding of his principal. Although Saraki is yet to make any official comment on the outcome of the meeting, sources close to the Senate President said he was not privy to the decision of the meeting in spite of the fact that his aide, Dr. Hakeem Baba Ahmed, read the communiqué. “The Senate President, like other members of his team, was surprised to see the Channels news report in which Baba-Ahmed was presented reading the communiqué. “In fact, the Senate President has verbally queried the Chief of Staff and members of his media team. “Saraki’s media team immediately had a meeting to look at the implication of the Chief of Staff taking on such a role which can be misinterpreted”, the source said. Our source said that the conclusion of the meeting of the media team was that Baba-Ahmed has always acted in similar capacity for key northern groups long before he joined the staff of the Senate President, except that in the present situation, his role could be misconstrued and will create some PR challenge to the team.