A  26-year-old man claiming to be an Islamic cleric, Alfa Babatunde Samuel, has been arrested and arraigned  for defrauding a woman N500,000 and engaging her in ‘sex deliverance’ that lasted for one month in Lagos. The incident happened at Jofolo Street in Iyana Ipaja area of Abule-Oke where the suspect took the victim for the sex deliverance. It was reported that the deliverance started but did not last for the one month Samuel had planned after the Police at Area M Command, Idimu busted the plan and arrested him. Ondo State-born Samuel told the police that he was into selling of films before he changed and became an alfa. He confessed to giving the victim a fake prophecy that put fear into her. According to the victim, Samuel met her and predicted her that she would soon die and therefore needed deliverance to cast out the spirit of death. It was gathered that Samuel told the victim things related to her and her family and she asked for the solution to avert those problems. LEADERSHIP Weekend learnt that Samuel took her to a place where he gave her the conditions for the said deliverance which involved paying the said amount of money, buying a goat and having sexual intercourse with him for one month. It was also gathered that the victim collected the money from her sister and fulfilled other requests from Samuel including the sex romp. However, the whole thing got exposed after Samuel continued to make demands of money and sex from the victim. She then confided in her sister what she had been going through and how she gave Samuel the money she collected from the sister. The matter was reported to the police; Samuel was trailed, arrested and taken to the Area M Command, Idimu. Police sources said that during interrogation, Samuel admitted that he was an Alfa but he gave the victim a false prophecy to obtain money from her and had carnal knowledge of her which he had expected to last for at least one month. He was charged before the Ejigbo Magistrates’ Court for the alleged offences. He pleaded not guilty. The magistrate, Mrs. J.O.E. Adeyemi Ajayi, granted Samuel bail in the sum of N100,000 with two sureties in like sum. The prosecutor, Kenneth Asibor did not object to his bail condition. The court also ordered that surety must deposit another N100,000 into the Court Registrar’s account as one of the conditions for his bail. Samuel was remanded in prison custody pending when he would perfect his bail condition. The matter was adjourned till 26 March, 2018