There seems to be tension in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the national Chairman of the party, Chief Uche Secondus and the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike stayed away from the National Working Committee (NWC) meeting with PDP governors in Gombe, on Sunday night. Another PDP governor absent at the meeting was Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, while Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Serieke Dickson and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State were represented by their deputies. The meeting was attended by Governors Ibrahim Dakwambo, Ayodele Fayose, Emmanuel Udom, Ifeanyi Okowa, Okezie Ikpeazu, Ben Ayade, Darius Ishaku, of Gombe, Ekiti, Akwa Ibom, Delta, Abia, Cross Rivers and Taraba states respectively. Attempts by reporters to know the reason why the national leader of the party and governor Wike shun the meeting proved abortive as governor Ayo Fayose, the Chairman PDP Governors’ Forum ignored questions from Journalists in that regards. LEADERSHIP, however gathered from sources at the meeting that their absence is in connection with the existing cold war within the party as regards the party’s choice for the 2019 presidential election.
Chief Ayo Fayose, who read the communique shortly after the meeting which came to an end at about 2:30 am on Monday warned the All Progressive Congress (APC) led administration against using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to intimidate them, vowing to resist such act. They asked the APC to desist from misusing state machinery in fighting their perceived political opponents in the guise of waging anti-corruption war.
Fayose who described the intimidation of PDP member in APC control states as “worrisome” said if such harassment continue it is capable of truncating our hard earned democracy. “The use of brute force, harassment and intimidation clearly show the level of desperation ahead of the 2019 election.” Fayose who said corruption is on the increase under the present administration said PDP remains the most credible alternative for Nigerians at the 2019 general elections.
According to him the party is now well focus, strong and reliable of returning to power in 2019. “We have very strong hopes of returning to power, we may not be shouting about strategies and the work that we are doing. The PDP is still the best option.”
The PDP leadership while condemning the recent kidnapped of Dapchi girls, describing it as “unfortunate and regrettable”, call on Mr. President to take up to his responsibility of protecting lives and property of Nigerians which was APC major campaign promise.