Ijaw youths under the aegis of Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) yesterday described as “misplaced” and “unwarranted” the outburst by George Turner, the Godson of former President Goodluck Jonathan, on the outcome of a meeting endorsing the Bayelsa State governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson by indigenes of Ogbia local government area of the state. George Turner, who served as Special Assistant to the former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) on Youths Matters, had last week kicked against the outcome of a meeting convened by the chairperson of the council, Naomi Ogoli, to find a lasting solution to the security issues in the area. At the meeting, youths and government officials from the area including the commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, deliberated on the rising cases of killings and abductions by some armed elements in the council and  sought lasting solution to the problem. While commending the desire of Ogbia indigenes to find lasting peace in the council, George Turner criticised the outcome of the meeting particularly the aspect in which a vote of confidence was passed on Governor Seriake Dickson. But angry youths under the aegis of Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide led by the vice-chairman, IYC Central Zone, Mr. Amiebi Turner, described the remarks of Jonathan’s Godson as unwarranted, misleading and aimed at discrediting attempt to forestall crime in the LGA and curb the numerous cases of violence. He said, “First let me remind George, that he is one of the architects of the situation bedeviling Ogbia today. If George had done things properly without diversion of projects and contracts meant for Ogbia people, we would have had no need to be holding meetings to restore peace in our once peaceful abode. “You all can attest that the Ogbia we have today has totally degenerated into almost a state of nature; lawlessness now breeds; crimes walk with two legs untamed and police stations are now locking up once it is 7:30pm. “The situation has become terrible. It is based on this, that the meeting was called and in course of our deliberations and solutions generation, we observed that the N1billion infrastructural development fund given by the government to the LGA, was remarkable and if more is done, it would greatly ease our woes. “One good turn they say deserves another. We, therefore, after other observations, commended the governor and passed a vote of confidence in him, believing he would do more, especially as we are faced with threats”. The IYC deputy chairman said the meeting principally discussed solutions to security challenges such as killings, kidnapping and other criminal activities. He said: “Development and security is everybody’s business, if government and indigenes play their roles, we would arrest this ugly trend.” 