Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, has blamed the Leadership of National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons for neglecting their core mandate of catering for the displaced. Governor Ortom who made this known during the visit of the  Commission to the state described their visit two months after the incident as belated even as he  expressed worry over the negligence of Cameroun refugees being harboured in the state by the Commission The governor who disclosed that five persons have already lost their lives in the camps urged the federal government to live up to its responsibility. “Two months after the refugees are camping here you are just coming. Do you mean if the state government and other spirited individuals and organisations had not taken care of them, they would have been left to die? Ortom who noted that the displaced persons were living in a dilemma described the condition at the Internally Displaced Persons and Refugees camps as pathetic, appealing to the Commission to be more active, swift and proactive in handling their responsibilities. “We have over ten thousand refugees displaced from Cameroun, camped in Kwande local government area of Benue State and another 160, 000 Internally Displaced Persons from areas affected by herdsmen attack.” He further said, he will continue to cry out till justice was given to his people insisting that ranching remains the option and global best practice and as well the best way of ending the herdsmen attacks. Earlier, federal commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migration and Internally Displaced Persons (NCRMIDP) Sadiya Umar Farouq, said the Commission was in the state to identify and empathised with government and people over the killings in the state. The commissioner who was represented by the Commission’s assistant director, Migration, Mr Charlse  Nwanlo said the Commission was worried over the the plight of the displaced persons and would do something urgently to alleviate their plight. According to her, the commission was aware of the influx of refugees from Cameroun into the state and is mobilising resources for economic and empowerment programme to the IDPs and refugees. She commended the state government, and the traditional institution for the roles they have played to calm the crises that resulted to the humanitarian situation in the state. 