 In what looks like a vote of no confidence on the decision of the Federal Executive Council to approve for Nigeria to sign up to the Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA), President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday constituted a committee to review the content of the proposals, especially its wider security implications. Speaking to State House correspondents after the FEC meeting yesterday,   special adviser on media to the president, Femi Adesina said Buhari was of the opinion that Nigeria was yet to fully understand the economic and security implications of the agreement.  According to Adesina, the president said the agreement had the capacity to hinder local entrepreneurship and encourage the dumping of finished goods in Nigeria. Consequently, the president constituted a committee comprising the ministers of Finance, Budget, Labour, Foreign Affairs, Science and Technology as well as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Nigerian Customs Service and the Nigerian Immigration Service. The committee is to report to the Council in two weeks.  Adesina said,  “The explanation from the president which the FEC bought was that he would not want to agree to anything that would hinder local entrepreneurs. And on the surface, except if proven wrong, is that, that agreement has the capacity to affect local entrepreneurship. “Then he (Buhari) also said that anything that could encourage the dumping of finished goods in Nigeria was going to be contrary to our interest. So, it is one of the reasons why he declined. Then he said the country is yet to fully understand the economic and security implications of the agreement.  “So, there has to be further consultations with different stakeholders and the final position was that a committee be set up to meet and review the contents of that proposal and they will do it within two weeks and get back to the Federal Executive Council.” LEADERSHIP recalls that President Buhari had last weekend cancelled his scheduled trip to Kigali, Rwanda, for the extraordinary meeting of African Union Heads of State and Government. The president had been scheduled to depart Nigeria for Kigali on Monday for the signing of the framework agreement for establishing the Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA).  One of the country’s labour centres, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), had maintained that the agreement was detrimental to the nation’s economic interest, alleging that the government did not consult widely on the matter. NLC president, Ayuba Wabba, recently declared that “we at the Nigeria Labour Congress are shocked by the sheer impunity or blatant lack of consultation in the process that has led to this. We are more worried by the probable outcome of this policy initiative if it is given life because of its crippling effect on the local businesses and attendant effects on jobs.”  After penultimate Wednesday’s FEC meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the presidential villa, Abuja, the minister of trade and investment, Okechukwu Enelamah,  had announced that the Council had approved for Nigeria to be a signatory to the CFTA, a position the president is now reviewing.  FG Should Not Sign AfCFTA Agreement, Says MAN  The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) yesterday warned the federal government to refrain from signing the agreement establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The manufacturers frowned at the contents of the agreement, noting that it would lead to gross unemployment as most manufacturing companies in the country would be made to die a quicker death. MAN president, Dr. Frank Jacobs, said his association would not support federal government’s ratification of the agreement establishing the AfCFTA until issues of market access and enforcement of rules of origin were addressed.  According to MAN, the agitation from the private sector was due to the lack of consultation and the non-inclusion of inputs of key stakeholders before Nigeria’s position was presented at the meetings of the African Union-Technical Working Group on CFTA in the build-up to AfCFTA negotiation by Nigeria. The AfCTA is expected to create a trade bloc of 1.2 billion people with a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of more than $2 trillion. The agreement commits countries to remove tariffs on 90 per cent of goods and to liberalise services. Jacobs explained that the issues of market access that allows only 10 per cent of products to be protected as well as government’s enforcement mechanism in the area of enforcement of rules of origin need to be clearly defined before local producers can support the agreement.  He stated that MAN was not oblivious of the benefits inherent in installing a continental trade agreement like AfCFTA that could improve intra-African trade and enhance economic growth and sustainable development, but he asserted that Nigeria’s national interest should be the primary consideration in the decision to sign on to such an arrangement. In his recommendations, Jacobs urged the government to set in motion a process that would enable all stakeholders on the international trade value-chain in Nigeria to quickly review the text of the draft AfCFTA agreement and come up with comments on areas that are not in the best interest of the Nigerian economy.  “Government should, as matter of urgency, convene a special meeting of the relevant stakeholders, including experts on trade policy, to consider tariff lines  rates along the line of efficiency, sectoral and sub-sectoral preferences that would be most beneficial to Nigerian businesses under the AfCFTA dispensation as well as reconsider the national position on EPA vis-a-vis the AfCFTA, especially on tariff lines of products on the sensitive/exclusion list, with a view to ensuring that the EU-EPA is not reintroduced through the AfCFTA’s backdoor,” he said.  According to the MAN boss, the stakeholders’ meeting would also review presentations and prepare a detailed submission for the government on ways of participating in the AfCFTA in a manner as to safeguard the country’s national interest and that of the budding manufacturing sector.  FG Recovers N7.8bn Via Whistleblower Policy –  Adesoun Minister of finance, Kemi Adesoun, has disclosed that the federal government has recovered the sums of N7.8 billion, $384 million and £27,800 through the instrumentality of the Whistleblower policy. She also revealed that the government saved N68 billion on personnel cost in 2017. The finance minister made the disclosure yesterday after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja, yesterday. Adeosun further gave an update on the implementation of FEC-approved projects in her ministry in the last two and a half years. “So far, from the whistleblower policy we have recovered the sums of N7.8bn, $384m, £27, 800,” she said. Adesoun also gave an update on the country’s debt profile, saying that FEC approved a three-year debt strategy to reduce Nigeria’s reliance on short-term borrowing, particularly treasury bills, and moving from domestic borrowing to external borrowing. “When we came in, what we owed was 84 per cent domestic and 16 per cent external borrowing. We have moved to 77:23 (per cent) as a result of Eurobonds that we have done and refinancing of maturing obligations. “Our term of maturity was 7.15. We have now extended it to 11.25. That gives a little bit of room to allow the investment we have made in capital projects to filtre into our tax system and allows us to manage the debt.  “What that means is reducing our cost of funds and reducing our interest cost because the cost of borrowing is much less and in a planned manner, and our average borrowing has reduced from 18 per cent to about 14 per cent. We are confident that as interest rates begin to ease, we will reduce our cost of borrowing even further.” Speaking on the capital releases for 2017, she said Power, Works and Housing got N301.89 billion, defence 151.2 billion, Agriculture N119.9 bn, Transport N127.9 billion and other areas combined N545.6 billion. “So the total capital budget release for 2017 so far is N1.248,310 trillion.  “We haven’t closed yet. We are confident we will close the year roughly around where we closed last year. We will close around N1.3 trillion mark. So, our commitment to infrastructure spending remains very strong. That is what is going to drive growth of the economy. That is what is going to drive jobs,” she added. While disclosing that the government had saved N68 billion  on personnel cost, and captured 511 ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) under the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), Adeosun noted that this brings the aggregate savings by the government on personnel cost since 2007 to date to N288 billion.  The savings, Adeosun explained, were funds that would ordinarily have disappeared into private pockets, but which are now available for the government to fund capital projects. She said the savings were achieved despite increase in personnel, including the employment of 10,000 officers by the Nigerian Police. She confirmed that a total of 511 MDAs had been captured under the IPPIS platform with staff strength of 607,843. “As at 20th March,  2018, the number of MDAs on IPPIS Payroll was 469 with 316,158 staff count, with gross salary of N43,979,383,997.78, and 42 police commands and formations paid on IPPIS platform in February 2018, with staff count of 291,685 and gross salary of N22,276,669,257.21. “Staff of para-military agencies (Nigeria Immigration Service, Nigeria Prison Service and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps) enrolled to date is 100,822 for which a trial payroll of N11,456,278,859.00 has been sent for review and update for April  2018 payroll,” Adeosun noted.  She added that the introduction of the IPPIS had resulted in the reduction of the ghost workers’ syndrome, enforcement of compliance of due process on the employment of staff in MDAs, and prompt and timely payment of salaries and remittances of third-party payments. The finance minister called for adequate funding of the IPPIS project to achieve its lofty objectives, just as she canvassed the need for a legislation to impose sanctions on non-compliance MDAs to the IPPIS framework in order to achieve speedy and successful service delivery. “There is need to kit IPPIS stakeholders to overcome challenges for effective and efficient service delivery at all times,” Adeosun concluded.