Mr Oladimeji Fabiyi is the National President of Turaki Vanguard and in this interview with GABRIEL ATUMEYI, he talks about politics, governance and the return of Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar to the PDP. What is your perception of politics under the present dispensation? But what really makes politics what it is, is the calibre of the individuals that play it. It is the individuals that will decide or design which way it will go, it can be good or it can be bad. But as far as Nigeria is concerned we are still evolving, we are not there yet.  A situation where we still have a lot of issues in our electoral process, shows that we still have a long way to go. It is not yet the best but I know we can always get there.  Politics and governance are often seen as different sides of the same coin, how do you see governance in Nigeria under this dispensation? Governance has so many shades, governance is just there, but as I have said about politics, it is the people who make it good or bad. As far as this dispensation is concerned Nigerians are not having a good deal. They expected a lot from the leaders but unfortunately the present dispensation has not been able to meet up with the demands and yearnings of the people and that brings me to the question of leadership.  Recently Alhaji Atiku Abubakar defected from All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  How do you see his chances in the PDP? Atiku Abubakar left the APC, not because of personal reason. It is because of his love for Nigeria and his desire to see a Nigeria where the citizens are happy. When in 2014 the leaders of APC came to practically beg him to join the party, one of the  things he asked was what were you bringing to the table for Nigerians and they told him, we are going to do this, we are going to restructure, we are going to tackle unemployment, we are going to create more jobs, we are going to fight corruption. He said fine, if these are the things they are bringing to the table, then it is fine. I can be part of it. For him it is about Nigeria. PDP which he helped form has derailed from the intention of the founding fathers. Atiku is passionate about three things, he is passionate about Nigeria, he is passionate about succession generation, which is you and me, he is also passionate about good governance. So he felt that APC had come with these three things. That was the reason he joined the APC. But a restless Atiku will not stay in APC that has derailed in its promises to Nigerians. Atiku is too serious a politician, too serious a business man, too serious a democrat to remain in an APC that has totally derailed and lost its bearing. So that is why he left and Nigerians are now seeing that he is genuine, that he knows what he wants to do and where he is going. For him it is not because he wants to be president at all cost, it is Nigerians that are now calling him to run even from the APC.  As recent, as two weeks ago, even if this is not suppose to be for public, I know about some APC leaders that requested for a meeting with him and encourage him to run for the presidency in 2019. From the APC and other parties we are having them in droves every day. From professional bodies, academia, religious bodies, politicians cutting across every sphere have been calling him to come and run for the presidency.  From the above comment are you saying we should expect more defections from the APC? Certainly, people who share the same vision with Atiku, people who see Nigeria first, you know and it is obvious, that the present leadership has totally lost it.  People who want a better deal for the nation would not stay in such a party. They will follow suit. So we have lots of people, some governors that are on their way, some national assembly members will soon move to the PDP.  How do you see politicking within the PDP, with the likes of Sule Lamido and Senator Ahmed Makarfi, also showing interest, do you see the former vice president edging out these people at the PDP presidential primary? That is the beauty of democracy and that is why we call it democracy. What I will only say is that none of these people can be a threat to an Atiku candidacy. Nigerians know Atiku very well, members of the party know who Atiku is. Today I had a meeting at the party’s headquarters; I know what people are telling me, that Atiku is a prepared candidate for the job. Atiku is the best person for this job and he is the only one who can push this government out of power. Even the APC knows that. I was privy to a document prepared by the APC, a nineteen page document, Atiku’s name featured 201 times. That is to tell you Atiku is their headache. So if Atiku can be headache to the ruling government, how much more these guys. I am not saying that they are not qualified, Makarfi had been a governor, Sule Lamido too had been a governor but the beauty of democracy is that everybody will go to the field to test their popularity. The only thing that is needed is for the leadership and stakeholders to provide a level playing field for every aspirant and let the most popular candidate win. That is where we are. So far as majority of the PDP members are concerned Atiku is their choice. And even the leadership of the party knows that. I am sure they will not make the mistake of doing something contrary. It is just to create s level playing field so that all aspirants can test their popularity in the field. See in politics, in election if a candidate loses fairly, he won’t raise any dust, he won’t go to court. I have run an election that I lost, I have sponsored candidates who have lost and I know that the guy lost very fairly. I have contested an election where I won and because the gap was too much and everybody knew that the election was fair, there were no issues. So that is just what we want. The party should just ensure a level playing field and let the best candidate win.  How do you see the fortcoming PDP Presidential Primary under the Chairmanship of Uche Secondus. Do you think they can provide the desired level playing field? Fortunately for me, when I was in the office at the headquarters of the party as the chief accountant of the party, between 1999 and 2007, from 2002 to 2006, Secondus was the state chairman of Rivers PDP, I had the opportunity of working with him. Secondus is a man of strong character, I know. He is a no nonsense and he has risen through the ranks. He has risen through the hierarchy from state party chairman to organising secretary, then deputy national chairman and now National chairman. He is equipped with the requisite experience to lead the party. Some people may not like the fact that he emerged and the he is widely accepted. I believe in the capability of the national working committee to lead the party to victory. In my interaction with most of the national working committee members I see a team that is determined to make the necessary changes, who are having at the back of their minds those things that made the party fail in the first instance and they would want to correct that and I told one of them that if you are able to do this your names would be written in gold as the best NWC ever of this party. So they are very conscious of it and I am sure they will do the right thing to ensure that we have minimum crisis after the primary and we can have a candidate who can go to national election and win. I have absolute trust and confidence in the present NWC led by Uche Secondus.  How do you see the impact of Atiku’s departure on the fortune of the APC? It is already affecting it. Since he left has the party known peace? They have been in serious disarray, you can see the fight between Tinubu and the national chairman, you can see crisis all over in the state chapters. It is already affecting them, they don’t have any leader who can stand his ground and say let’s make this happen. Tinubu today is the chairman of the reconciliation committee, how can the President set up a one man reconciliation committee? If you want to set up a reconciliation committee, it has to be a number of people who are credible, respected people. What is happening now shows the party is confused. And that has been extended to our national life as a people and as a nation. So you can see the confusion in the party extending to the governance of the country. Even Mr President asked the National chairman of the party when Atiku left, how can you allow someone like Atiku Abubakar to leave the party? Just two days ago I was in Lagos for an event, the Silverbird awards, the leader of the house of representative, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila said that Atiku should please come back to the party. They know that they goofed by allowing someone like Atiku to leave the party. When his Excellency Atiku Abubakar left the PDP it never regained itself back. They should have learnt from that. So it means that Atiku by the grace of God is an enigma politically in this country. How do you see the third force movement, do you consider them a potential threat to the 2019 prospect of Atiku Abubakar? The third force is D.O.A, (it is dead on arrival). They came out about five weeks ago. Maybe because I have not been watching television or reading the papers. Maybe you can tell me how much of them you have seen since that time. So many things will work against the so-called third force. I don’t see them as a third force, they are a movement. We know how a movement works. If they want to gain the reins of power there are processes. It means they need to form a political party, which is why I said so many things would work against them. Number one is time, when you want to take over the reign of power you have to go through a party. I don’t know if they are going to hijack an existing political party. In terms of mobilization and trying to convince Nigerians what are they bring to the party. Number two is resources, who are going to fund them. Even to contest for councillorship in Nigeria today is serious, I don’t know who is going to bring the money. Number three, I don’t know who is going to be their arrow head. Number four is ambition, because I have seen people who are there. For example, I heard the former governor of Cross Rivers saying he wants to be President on CNN. I also heard Olagunsoye Oyinlola from Osun State saying he wants to be governor again in Osun state. These are the two gladiators that I saw there. So who is going to be the arrow head, who is going to finance it? All this things would work against them. Lastly, what is their objective, why are they coming out now. If you know you want to make that kind of changes why are you coming out when Obasanjo has fallen out with the President? So they should not think that all Nigerians are foolish, we are not. We are an intelligent people, Nigerians are great people with great minds, with great thinking. So they shouldn’t think they can take us for a ride. Let me tell you something, those people you see on the streets, the informal sector, the artisans, the traders, the motorcycle riders, the common people like you and I on the streets, there is a particular language they understand when it comes to politicking. I have not seen anyone among these  people who call themselves third force, who can speak that language. Is it Agbakoba or Femi Falana? What language of the people on the street do they understand when it comes to politicking. That is why I said it is dead on arrival. So no need to waste energy on them. Let them come and show us what they have on the table.  How is the present relationship between Atiku Abubakar and his former principal, Olusegun Obasanjo as 2019 beckons, given Obasanjo’s involvement with the emergent third force Movement? The relationship is cordial. Obasanjo is not God, God makes people, and God brings people to power. One million Obasanjo’s cannot make Atiku president and so also, one million Obasanjo cannot stop Atiku Abubakar from becoming the president of this country. That is why I say the relationship is cordial; let’s leave God and the people to decide. Atiku Abubakar was instrumental to Obasanjo becoming the President of this country, with resources, with support and everything. I am from Obasanjo’s place, I am from Abeokuta, and he said it at a village square meeting that we should thank Atiku because he virtually made everything happen. So God is a God of justice, at that time he will rise and fight for his own. So it is not Obasanjo that can make or not make Atiku Abubakar President, it is God. So that is why I said the relationship is cordial, there is mutual respect between the two leaders. When they see each other, they greet each other. They know each other more than you and I. Atiku Abubakar came into power as a billionaire, I don’t want to say more than that.  