A 41-year-old  randy pastor (name withheld) of a new generation church  in Ugbolu Community, near Asaba, Delta State, has allegedly put in family way, two sisters after conducting  “Fake Deliverance” for them. It was gathered that in 1998, the said pastor had,  in Enugu State, allegedly committed same act when he was said  to have slept  with a  mother and daughter during an  all-night service, and was subsequently banished from the town after he was subjected to severe beating by angry church youths. Sources said the two sisters, undergraduates of the National Open University, Asaba study centre (names withheld) had been regular visitors to the pastor’s church in the Community, and most times, attended his deliverance service before the bubble burst. According to our informed sources, trouble started in December 2017 when the two  sisters sought the pastor’s spiritual help for an undisclosed spiritual attack, a situation he allegedly respond to and hoodwinked them into doing deliverance  during night fall, an offer the unsuspecting sisters willingly accepted without hesitation. It was further gathered that the pastor allegedly “arranged” a room within the church premises where the two sisters, native of Asaba were ordered naked, and in the process, were offered water in a big bucket to bath with. While the purported deliverance process lasted, the pastor, an insider said, suddenly went into uncontrollable act, leaving his manhood blown out of his white garment dress, and in a twinkle of an eye allegedly buried  it into one of the victims vagina. A member of the church Celestine Okoh, told our reporter that the lid of the pastor’s illicit and purported deliverance act was blown open last Sunday, during  church service when  the two sisters, in what appeared to be mild drama, stormed the church with some hired thugs and in a fit of fury, allegedly dragged the pastor out before they started beating and stoning him in the process. In the melee, his church was set ablaze by the angry youths who also ensured that those who supported him were disgraced and beaten to stupor. But the Police image maker in the state, DSP Andrew Aniamaka, who spoke to Journalists on the incident,  said two persons  were arrested, and are currently being detained at Illah Police division in connection with the fight and breakdown of law and order. He assured that the Police will do everything possible to bring to book those who took laws into their hands, adding that the circumstances surrounding the Pastor’s attack was being investigated. Meanwhile, family sources said that the pastor’s ex-wife has died of strange illness, adding that she allegedly suffered inexplicable rashes all over her body before she died in 2012. She was said to have been separated from the pastor after irreconcilable differences in 2011, and since then, the pastor had remained unmarried with randy life styles. 