Ten people were feared dead while several others sustained various degrees of injuries following a multiple road accident that occurred at about 9:30am yesterday at Nyanya in Abuja. The accident, which occurred close to the popular Nyanya Tipper Garage, involved a truck belonging to a drinks company and two others belonging to a construction company. According to an eye witness, the accident happened after a truck laden with gravel lost its brakes while descending the steep Kugbo road. The eyewitness, who gave his name simply as John, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that the truck lost control and hit several other vehicles. “It was in that process that the second truck, which was equally loaded with gravel, brushed the soft drinks truck, which was as well loaded with crates of drinks and some other vehicles and fell inside Tipper Garage and emptied its content.” Confirming the accident, Nyanya Unit Commander of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Mr. Micheal Agu, said the actual number of the casualties could not be ascertained as rescue operation was still ongoing. According to him, many of the victims had been rushed to both Nyanya General Hospital and the Asokoro District Hospital. However, another eyewitness told our reporter that two soldiers were also killed in the accident. “The number of people who died in the accident and those who sustained injuries were not immediately available. Two soldiers, who were controlling traffic after the first accident, were said to have died on the spot after the second truck lost control and hit them. “Some injured persons were taken to Nyanya General Hospital, some to Asokoro Hospital. I can’t say now their number, but two soldiers were hit and they died instantly,” he said. When LEADERSHIP Weekend visited the scene of the accident, there was free flow of traffic as soldiers, officials of the FRSC, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIO), had taken over traffic of the area. Meanwhile, the FRSC said only three people were killed and 10 others injured in the multiple vehicular accident. According to the official report released by FRSC spokesperson, Bisi Kazeem, two males and a female died, while nine males and one female were injured. The report also stated that a combined team of rescue personnel from the officials of the FRSC, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Lifeline Ambulance, Nigeria Army (as one of their personnel was killed) and FCT Emergency Management Agency all intervened at the crash scene while the Nigeria Police took charge of the investigation.