About six million applicants for university admissions within the last five years were denied admission due to shortage of space and capacities by the existing universities in the country, National Universities Commission ( NUC)  has disclosed. NUC executive secretary,  Prof Abubakar  Rasheed  stated this yesterday in his office  while receiving a team of intellectuals from Kogi West lobbying for upgrade of Federal College of Agriculture, Kabba to a full fledged university. Rasheed said that between 2013 and 2017, out of 7.8million university admission applicants that sat for Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination ( UTME),only 1.9million gained admission , leaving the remaining 5.9 million in the cold. “The surest way out of this problem largely created by yearly  increase in population is for government and private individuals or corporate bodies to establish more universities. “As at today, Monday 12-03-2018, there are 161 universities comprising 41 federally owned,  46 states owned and  74  owned by private individuals or corporate bodies with attendant inadequate space, capacities and facilities for admission of up to 2million admission seekers “, he said . He however assured the team which has Senator Dino Melaye( APC,Kogi West)  and  Nigerians that the NUC is currently working with the universities to find solutions to the admission problems. Recommendations to that effect according to him, would be submitted soon to the various authorities including the executive and legislative arm of government. Earlier, Senator Melaye said Okun land, specifically Kabba as its headquarters deserves a university. “The College of Agriculture Kabba is as old as the ABU Zaria but it is yet to become a full fledged university even though it has most of the facilities required to become a university. “We need this university because it’s as important to us Okun people as the breath of air, so we have come to lobby you so that you can lobby the Education Minister, and President Buhari so that a university can be established in Kabba. “ A  Bill seeking to establish the university in Kabba is currently at the National Assembly. “We appeal to you that when the Bill gets to the President and your advice is sought, give good words for us the Okun people,” he requested.