Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, yesterday warned kidnappers and armed robbers to leave the state or face the full wrath of the law. He also reassured prospective investors that Kogi State is the safest part of the country where investments can thrive. The governor stated this at Irepeni village along Lokoja -Okene highway when he visited the ‘Operation Cat Race’ troops deployed to the state by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai. According to him, the rising cases of crimes and criminality in Benue, Kogi, Kaduna, Taraba and Nasarawa States made President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Chief of Army staff  to deploy troops to those states to carry out military operations tagged ‘Operation Cat Race’, which is aimed at flushing criminal elements out of the said states. Governor Bello said, “In the wisdom of Mr President, he directed the Chief of Army staff to deploy troops to carry out some operations in those areas where criminals are disturbing the citizens. “The operations started in Benue State and it is also taking place in Kogi State. I am here today to visit the troops who are in the field and whose performance has impressed me so much. I met them in high morale and wish to have them in the state through out my duration as governor of Kogi”. The governor who commended the troops for their excellent job that has brought down acts of criminality in the state assured investors that the state is safe for investment. He however warned hoodlums to leave the state or face the full wrath of the law, noting that government will not relent in its efforts to make the state safe for the citizens. In his remark, the leader of the troops, Major General Felix Agugo, disclosed that the operation will last till the end of March, adding that they were in the state to fight every form of criminality. He hailed Governor Bello for giving a compensation of N5 million to the family of late Corporal Mamman Lazarus who lost his life in a gun battle with kidnappers in the state.