President Mohammadu Buhari was in Jos on a two day state working visit last week. In this piece ACHOR ABIMAJE  captures the glamour and political intrigues during the visit. President Mohammadu Buhari arrived Jos, the Plateau State capital amid tight security as ensured by fierce-looking armed operatives stationed in areas considered as security flash points. Eagle one,  the presidential jet touched down at exactly 11:50am, and Buhari,  clad in the Goemai traditional attire, a royal blue ‘adire’, was received by the Plateau State governor, Simon Bako Lalung, who led delegation of the state executive to the airport. Others dignitaries present to receive the President  at Heipang Airport were Governor Tanko Almakura of Nasarawa State, Minister of Youth and Sports Hon. Solomon Dalung, Senator Joshua  Dariye, Speaker of the State  Assembly and members of House of Reps from the State, State Executive Council as well as former Governors, Traditional Rulers and  Elders amongst others. At the airport, he inspected a guard of honour before proceeding to the business of the day. The president was on a two day working visit in the state, where he served during his military days. The President inaugurated the Secretariat Junction  flyover bridge started by the immediate past administration but completed under the current administration. He also commissioned the Mararaba Jamma to British America Junction road and the Federal low cost -Rafiki road, and inspected the Unguwar Rogo – Alikazaure bridge under construction. As a boast to the state’s agricultural sector, the President launched 400 tractors purchased for distribution. This initiative was under the tractor ownership and Public Private Partnership (PPP) scheme between the Plateau State Government and the Plateau All Farmers multipurpose cooperative society. A high point of the visit Was The launch of Plateau State road map to peace and development by the President. The program is designed to put an end to the cycle of violence in Plateau and other states of the federation. The President however paid a courtesy visit to the chairman of the state’s Traditional Rulers Council, the Gbong Gwom Jos Da Gyang Buba. However, speaking at the town hall meeting with Plateau stakeholders at the Government House in Jos, Buhari said the Plateau road map to peace as packaged by the state peace development agency was a welcome development that should be copied by other states of the federation. He pledged his administration’s support for the agency. He however praised the development strides in the state under the Lalong administration. Buhari said, “This visit has indeed enabled me to see things for myself, especially the developmental strides recorded by the State Government in the last three years under the able leadership of Governor Simon Bako Lalong.” He described the visit as a home-coming for him having served part of his military career in the state when he was the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 3rd Armoured Division Jos. The president said he is very impressed by the remarkable achievements recorded by the state government in key sectors of the economy in the last three years despite limited resources. He noted the judicious use of funds by the state government. He also noted how the government has improved infrastructure, been up-to-date in the payment of workers’ salaries and pensions, and above all how it has restored peace in the State. “The achievements of the Plateau State Government in agriculture are quite laudable.  I am glad that the state government has fully keyed into the All Green Initiative and the Anchor Borrowers’ Scheme of the Federal Government considering the strategic importance of agriculture to our national development. “Equally commendable is Plateau State’s commitment to the African Development Bank-funded Potato Value Chain Support Project, which is targeted at wealth creation, employment generation and food security.  The Federal Government is also committed to the success of this project in Plateau state”, he said. The President also commended the principle of continuity adopted by the Governor of Plateau State whereby he has continued with execution of projects abandoned by the previous administration. “This approach has saved the state from waste and white elephant projects. I have noted the request for refund of funds expended on the rehabilitation of the Jos-Bukuru-Mararaba Jema’a Road which is a Federal road project and other interventions. The Federal Government will expedite action towards the refund of verified claims by the Plateau State Government. The President further stressed  “Federal Government’s intervention in the construction of the Pankshin-Tapshin-Gambrar-Sara-Kai-Gindiri Road to Metropolitan Construction Company Ltd; Execution of TETFUND Projects; Bail-Out Funds; Paris Club Refunds and N-Power Scheme are part of Federal Government’s commitment towards improving the lot of people in Plateau state and in the country at large.” Buhari also noted that Lalong request for more slots for the state in federal appointments will be looked into so as to reflect federal character in line with the federal government’s determination to address issues of marginalization in the spread of appointments and other privileges. “Similarly, the genuine concern and request for dualization and construction of the road from Abuja to Jos and as gateway extending to the North East, given the economic viability and conveniences will be put into consideration,” he said. The President however said he is impressed with gains and successes recorded in the area of conflict management and peace-building, which has returned this state to the path of relative peace. The governor, Lalong, in an earlier remark commended the  President for rising up to the challenge by setting up the Vice President Osinbajo 10-Member Working Committee on Farmers/Herdsmen Conflicts, saying “it is our sincere hope and prayer that this hydra-headed monster would be nipped in the bud.” While pointing out that Plateau is the gateway to the North-east, the governor requested for dualization and construction of the road from Abuja to Jos, noting it’s economic viability and conveniences. “In fact, being a gateway to the Federal Capital from both the North-West axis of Kano and Jigawa as well as the entire North-East, which even extends to the South-East and South-South, the traffic density is high adding that executing this project will massively ease the movement of goods and compliment the presence and vast potential of the dry Inland Container Depot at Heipang. “A very critical area of request for synergy and intervention is the imperative for a major Trauma Services and Centre along the Hawan Kibo area being envisaged by my administration. It is our desire to upgrade the Riyom General Hospital to Trauma Center. Hawan Kibo, so named with reference to the steep hills is an axis of Federal Road but a black spot that has unenviable reputation for frequent road accidents, claiming the lives of many citizens. “The casualties are due to lack of facilities and untimely intervention in handling critical injuries, which are life-threatening. Such major Trauma Centres are usually set up to provide specialized trauma care and rehabilitation. Presently, there is only one major centre in Nigeria located at the National Hospital”, he said. The governor, also said his administration  inherited several abandoned and uncompleted projects adding that in order to make a difference, they  embraced the principle of continuity in governance and made a clean break from the usual tradition of ignoring projects initiated by previous administration. “ Mr. President, you may wish to know that most projects abandoned at great cost are today, either nearing completion or have been completed. A case in point is the Interchange flyover or overhead bridge at the State Secretariat Junction, with slip roads and underpass awarded at a cost of about N4.7 billion, which we inherited at about 30% work stage but made it motorable within the first 100 days of the administration and it is now completed.’ Lalong further said the road construction from Jos Wildlife Park to Rafiki Junction and rehabilitation of the Miango junction road project, covering 19.5 kilometers at total sum of about N2.8bn have brought ease of life to the people; just as the on-going construction of Angwan Rogo Road network with a spur and bridge linking Hawan Idi and Ali Kazaure covering 6 kilometers at about N1.5bn is expected to bring succour to the citizenry.” Without a doubt the visit is a political mileage for not just for the APC but the governor ahead of 2019, a situation which sparked a reaction from the opposition. For one,  the visit has affored the ruling party an opportunity to embark on subtle campaign of its activities in the state. Nonetheless, the leading opposition party in the state PDP faulted the visit, pointing out that projects celebrated in the state was their initiative. They also picked holes in the peace roadmap. According to a statement signed by Mr John Akans, PDP state publicity secretary, as welcoming as this visit is, the party noted that Mr President was long-expected to have come to condole the people on what they call the daredevil attacks visited on very peaceful communities since the inauguration of the current administration. The party said the Plateau people are still mourning the killing of dozens of  peaceful and hospitable people of Irigwe people in Miango chiefdom of Bassa Local Government (and the attacks are continuing!) and the murder and displacement of more communities in Riyom, Barkin Ladi as well as Bokkos Local Government Areas. “So, while the president unveils the Road Map to peace, we remind him that as at the last count, over 44 villages were under forceful occupation by Fulani herdsmen in some LGAs in some parts of Plateau, and we have not seen any federal efforts to either recover them or reconstruct communities destroyed by the herdsmen”, the party said. The statement added that any serious attainment of peace as is being claimed by the Lalong administration should naturally have led to the conduct of our long-awaited Local Government elections which is the rightful yearning of all Plateau people. The statement added “So, any road map to peace that does not take cognisance of and commit to justice and equitable treatment of the Internally Displaced People of Plateau as well as uplifting of democracy will only be a roadmap that is short-sighted, empty and pretentious. “ The party also said the attention Mr President has paid to the environment and displaced persons in the North East should be rightly extended to the displaced people of Plateau adding that it is heart-warming that he is commissioning projects that were initiated and being executed by the PDP administration in Plateau. He further pointed out that PDP is also rather both amazed and amused that the road projects slated for commissioning could be tagged as abandoned noting that the party left no abandoned projects – they were on-going projects right up to the Handing Over of the reigns of government. The party spokesman added, “take away these projects from the President’s schedule, then we can ask ourselves: what has Governor Simon Lalong really achieved for Plateau State in his 33 months in office?”