ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM and LINDA NWAGU writes on some of the best young and promising actresses that have shown they could get to the highest peak in the movie industry. Rahama Sadau This beautiful Kannywood actress has made waves in the past year. The two time winner of the City People Entertainment awards and the African Film Awards debut into the Nollywood scene was facilitated as a result of the ban sanctioned on her by the Kannywood Industry seems to be taking giant  strides and has turned into a blessing in disguise .The producer of award winning movie Rariya  has featured in movies like AJUWAYA, Hakkunde, Gani ga Wane, Accidental Spy,Sons of the Caliphate and MTV Shuga series and we are keeping our fingers crossed for more action from her this year. Adesua Etomi This enchanting actress took the industry by storm, the actress who made her first debut with Knocking on Heaven’s Door has had so many awards to her credit. The summa cum laude graduate of the University of Wolverhampton has indeed shown her repertoire of skills in drama and performance in movies like, Knocking on Heavens door, Shuga, Falling, Brave ,Ten days in Suncity, Something wicked, In Line,Arbitration,Wedding Party and its sequel Wedding Party 2 which has been one of the latest movies that brought so much fanfare during the yuletide season.  We await more blockbusters from her this year.  Belinda Effah This fast growing actress has been busy in the past year. The young actress who won the Nollywood movie  award for Best Rising Star,Female category is no new person to the screen as she had her first debut in her television series  Shallow Waters  in 2005 and went ahead to feature in the Next Movie Star  Reality show and  hosted her own programme on TV,Lunchbreak with Belinda. The former Soundcity presenter has featured in movies like After the proposal ,Being Single,Falling for the Guy Next Door ,Mrs Somebody, House Husband and Lost Café. Tamara Eteimo The actress has over 50 movies to her credit. The winner of the  seventh edition of the Next Movie Star which brought her into limelight and she has been waxing stronger since then for which she has been nominated on various occasions for the award of best supporting actress  . The actress cum singer has featured in movies like Desperate Housegirls, Mrs Somebody ,Finding Mercy,My Game,Falling,Dry,A Time to Heal, Survival, Green Eyed, Somewhere Down the Line and a host of others. We are optimistic that she will be a sensation in this year. Rosy Meurer This beautiful Dutch –Nigerian actress has become quite the sensation recently. The Gambian born actress cum model who started acting in 2009 but came into limelight with the popular TV series Oasis in 2014. The controversial actress who has been dragged into the Tonto Dikeh and Churchhill skirmish hasW currently released pictures of scenes of upcoming AY movie ,Yoruba Demons has featured in movies likeRed Card ,The Getaway, Broken Bond, Vendetta, Open Marriage, Spell Bound and In the Cupboard.  Nsikan Isaac This is one of the beautiful damsels that has been making waves in the Industry of late. The graduate of petroleum engineering seems to have followed her passion in acting. The rising starlet and producer has featured in several movies including ,The Scorned Help, Glass Slippers, The Cartel, Whispers of Horror, Palace of Romance, Blind Queen, To Live Again, Weekend  Getaway, The Golden House, The Bankable One and a host of others.  Mary Lazarus She is one of the actresses whose smile you just can’t help but notice. The model who gave up a white collar job to pursue her passion in acting is indeed making her mark in the Industry. Movies she featured in include, Tinsel, Shadows, Dance to my heartbeat, Desperate housegirls, Bad Drop, Christmas is Coming, Blind, Unforeseen, What makes you Tick, Honey Contract, Married but living Single, Behind the Smile and Mummy Dearest. Zainab Balogun The London born actress has been at the stage front lately, with the news of the recent movie Royal Hibiscus Hotel on the waves. The model who is no new face to the screen is a model and a television presenter. The classy belle who is the CO founder of J-ist TV has featured in movies which include, Dark Night Rising,Cocktail,A Soldiers Story, Wedding Party and Royal Hibiscus Hotel. Linda Ejiofor This actress popularly known for her role as Bimpe Adekoya in the mostly watched TV series, Tinsel is one actress that has been on the rise. The winner of the AMVCA Best Supporting Actress 2015 has featured in movies such as, Diary of a Lagos girl, Bandits, Black Widow, Heroes and Zeros, Out of Luck, A Soldiers Story, Heaven’s Hell,  The Meeting and TV series Industreet. Meg Otanwa This classic beauty is one of the newest sensation in the Nollywood Industry. The Ufuoma McDermott look alike is an educationally accomplished persona who seems to have taken a giant leap into the industry as she left her job with African Development Bank in Tunis. The bold polyglot who recently wrote a letter to the president of the country on the recent massacre in Benue is on her way to making her mark in the Industry, she has featured in movies like Atlanta, I will take My Chances, Road to Yesterday, Ratnik, Doll House, Ojuju ,Kpians, Feast of Souls.