Mustapha Sule Lamido, son to the former Jigawa State Governor, Sule Lamido who is also the Santurakin Dutse has been described as an extraordinary human emancipator by some prisoners who regained their freedom after he paid their respective fines and got them released. Santuraki who was in company of his friend, Aminu Wada Abubakar, Dokajin Dutse and other associates, were at the Jahun and Kiyawa prisons to secure the release of over 20 prisoners whose charges are lighter and couldn’t afford to pay for their respective fines and he donated materials like, mats, antimalaria and antibiotic drugs, soaps, Izal, uniforms and many more. Speaking at the occasion, Mustapha said, despite being convicted for committing different offences, those behind bars need another chance to repent, have a meaningful and free life again as human beings. “I therefore, call on all well-meaning individuals in the society and political office holders to inculcate the culture of liberating and saving human lives by putting smiles on the faces of the despondent and despaired people in the society. He equally, urged the beneficiaries of his kind gesture to totally change their habits, desist from committing any crime that will put them in trouble and be good ambassadors. “We have countless meaningful ventures where you can engage in legally to earn a living while enjoying absolute freedom. I humbly appeal to everyone here to think of what to do when leaving here to avoid coming back again. Let this one serve as a deterrent to all of you,” he added. While thanking Santuraki for his kind gesture, on their separates remarks, the beneficiaries promised to change and live a moral life. They described Santuraki as an extraordinary person that in spite of his busy schedules and other financial burdens, he remembered them and gave them a space to have freedom again. Our rich and politicians should emulate this gesture. In another development, Mustapha Sule Lamido have consoled with the victims of the fire incident that razed many shops and consumed properties worth millions in the same Jahun where he promised to give them financial donation to reduce the effect of their lost. Recall that, Santuraki had recently visited two IDP’s camps situated in Babaldu and Kiyawa where he made a donation of various gifts to the IDPs which include relief materials which include; grains, macaroni, indomie noodles, spaghetti and condiments.