The immediate past governor of Benue State, Gabriel Suswam, declared that, he and the Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, have agreed to shelve their grieviances and work together in the interest of the unity, peace and development of the state. The former governor said his resolution follows the intervention of the father of the Tiv nation, His Majesty Ochivrigh professor James Ayatse, in their face-off. Suswam, made this known during a meeting with the delegation of Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation led by the chairman Board of Trustees Muazu Babangida Aliyu, which held in Makurdi. He added they have put aside their differences to work together to ensure the success of the 2017 Anti Open grazing Law. The erstwhile governor who explained that their coming to Benue State was not partisan added that they are in the state under the auspices of Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation, with a promise that their coming will translate into reality that will stem the incessant attacks on Benue farmers by the Fulani herdsmen. “This battle by herdsmen terrorists which started as far back as 2010 has assumed a different dimension and I see no reason folding my hands to watch my people being slaughtered as chicken, because my interest cannot override the interest of my people what is happening today is totally against the spirit of the one north which our forefathers fought for. “So I am assuring the people of the state that I will work hand in hand with the governor on issue that are not partisan for peace and the overall development of the state”, he said. Responding, Ortom lamented the continued attack and ransacking of villages by Fulani herdsmen terrorists even in the presence of the Nigerian Army exercise Ayem A kpatema. Ortom who raised the alarm, frowned at the Army’s exercise which he said is rather encouraging the influx of Fulani herdsmen terrorists and their cattle in many communities.  “I find it difficult to believe that even with the presence of the Nigerian Army in the state more villages are being sacked,   farm lands and crops destroyed, houses razed. Let me say that, we are still hopeful and looking forward that the Army’s exercise in the state will do the needful so that the over 160,000 internally displaced persons in 8 camps across the state would go back to their homes.