There was pandemium in Kaduna yesterday night when angry youths set ablazed a celestial church of God, a vehicle at Bayan Dutse in Chikun local government area of Kaduna state following the death of a boy alleged to have been ‘sacrificed’ by the pastor of the church. The angry youths who also engaged the police also set ablazed the Narayi police outpost in the process.  Information gathered has it that the boy is in his early twenties and attends Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) Gospel church Narayi. According to neighbours around where the incidence occurred, the deceased was serving as a mason boy to the pastor of the church who was building a demarcation inside a river beside the church when all of a sudden he fell into the river and died. The pastor was said to have immediately ran to the nearby police outpost to report the incidence. Meanwhile, angry youths who heared of the incidence alleged that the white garment church pastor may have used the boy as a sacrifice and immediately mobilised and burnt down the church, pastorium and a jeep belonging to a member of the church parked there. The youths also took to the street protesting the killing and demanding to see the pastor who was said to have been taken to Barnawa police station. Meanwhile, the remains of the deceased was buried at about purpose 10pm Tuesday night beside the river after prayers were offered for his remains by the pastor of his church, Pastor Mark Ayuba. He however urged the youths to accept what has happened as the will of God and should not take the laws into their hands. As at the time of filing this report, the name of the pastor could not be ascertained while that of the deceased was simply gotten as Sylverster. Meanwhile, some protesting youths were said to have been arrested. When the Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO) ASP Mukhtar Aliyu was contacted, he confirmed the incidence, the arrest and added that the pastor was in their custody. According to him, ” We acted proactively to rescue the pastor but the youths took the law into their hands and set ablazed the church and our outpost. “The Commissioner directed a meeting with community leaders of the area with the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of the area which he did. We are going to arrest and prosecute accordingly whoever has a hand in the death and burning of the outpost and the miscreants who used the opportunity to wreck havoc after our investigation” he said. More details later….