Lagos State governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, said yesterday that he identifies with the mission of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group and would support its publication because the media organisation has raised the bar for the industry in information dissemination in the country. Ambode stated this when he received a management team of LEADERSHIP Group Ltd led by the Group Managing Director, Alhaji Abdul Gombe, who were on a courtesy visit to his office in Lagos. While receiving a letter notifying him of the Governor of the Year 2017 award given to him by the paper and copies of LEADERSHIP Newspapers at the Ikeja Lagos House, Ambode said, “The paper is good. I will support it.” LEADERSHIP Newspapers had named the Lagos State governor Governor of the Year 2017 for sustaining and exceeding the very high standards set by his predecessors in critical sectors and for his focus and commitment to the ideals of governance. Fielding questions from journalists shortly after handing over the letter of the award to the governor, the GMD of LEADERSHIP Group, Gombe, said they were in the Lagos State House on a courtesy visit to intimate the governor about the forthcoming LEADERSHIP awards, being one of the awardees. Gombe remarked that the governor was economically sound to have been able to manage a state adjudged to be the fifth largest economy in Africa effectively, saying his deft economic policies were capable of further boosting economic prosperity of the state. He said,” You will agree with me that there are giant strides in what the governor is doing, especially in terms of security, in providing infrastructure. So, we believe that Lagos is setting a pace for other state governments in the country to emulate. “The Governor has also prioritized workers’ welfare ensuring that Lagos civil servants collect their salary by the 26th of every month without any delay or complaints. “We believe that our award for the governor is justified because basically the governor has done a lot in providing services, security, infrastructure in this state. So, he truly deserves LEADERSHIP Governor of the Year award.”