Shehu Gabam is the national secretary of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). He was a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and campaign director of the Prof Tunde Adeniran Campaign Organisation in the party’s chairmanship race at its last national convention. In this interview with CHIBUZO UKAIBE, he gives insight into why his political family left the PDP for the SDP. After the PDP national convention, you and your political camp who felt aggrieved with the process, moved to the SDP after participating in the reconciliation process which at the time seemed to be progressing. But you all eventually defected. What actually provoked your decision to move? First, I must say that the choice of the Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson as chairman of the reconciliation committee was apt. He is a very dedicated and committed man who loves his party. He is very sincere and forthright. He took up the role with absolute commitment and determination to see if something could be done about the friction in party which was obvious and deep. In fairness to him, we did interface with him. He knew the grievances beforehand. They were not new to him. What we said before the convention were facts. The press covered all the fundamental issues that we raised, warning that there will be consequences if the convention was short of the required standard. We had said so before at the aborted convention which resulted in the parallel convention in Abuja. There were consequences which led to the birth of the national caretaker committee. So last December’s convention was absolutely developed to be a rigging convention. What happened at the convention ground was against the rules of a proper convention. It was a mark of complex by people who felt defeated already so they had to manipulate and short change the core values that are known for the conduct of convention in any political party. We had stated that this convention must be transparent. There must be a show of remorse, a departure from the old ways of doing things. We provided leadership for 16years and we couldn’t conduct a convention that will elect principal officers of the party through due process and the laws that established the convention. You can imagine serving governors going around distributing unity list at the venue of the convention and they knew that international community were watching. We all knew the European Union had urged for free and fair elections. They knew that we had a ruling government in place that we were hoping to defeat. They knew we were defeated because of rascality, arrogance, disregard for rules and regulations. They also knew that after we lost the 2015 election, a committee was established and headed by the deputy senate president, who went round the county to find out why we actually lost election. The committee went round the six geopolitical zones on a fact finding mission. The report was brought back to the party, the National Executive Committee (NEC) approved it, I was an eye witness and participant. Thereafter, as if that was not enough another committee was constituted called strategic committee and inter-party affairs headed by Prof Jerry Gana. I participated in three committees. I was over stretched and we generated the best ideas and advise on how the system can be restructured. People on the committee came and worked voluntarily, nobody gave us a dime. We invested our time and resources to make sure we gave the party the best that any human can give. Our recommendations on how to remodel and restructure the party were well accepted. The NEC also approved it. But again it was jettisoned. At the convention, there was no single semblance that everything that was generated by the committees were imbibed. There was no sign of remorse. PDP wasn’t built by people who were short sighted. It was built by great visionary leaders and politicians who during the dark days of military regime damned the consequences and formed a formidable national party. I am happy that what they did gave this country democratic stability for 16 years. It revolutionised the political space and sparked massive technological and infrastructural development. But, of course, along the line some rascality manifested in the party. People assumed office and felt nobody could talk to them, the abuse of the party became entrenched. The basic structure of the party was abandoned by so called contact men from outside the party structure.  If you remember we had parallel structures by late Sunday Awoniyi. We even had a parallel office opened at Jabi. That was when the whole crisis started. We had subsequent ones. Not too long ago, we saw great personalities of the party move out to join the APC as a result of impunity. Yet, with all this consequences, and all the fact findings we did, collected and imputed in a document, some group of people still felt that they must have their way… Who are these group of people? You know them. Some of the governors, not more than two or three. One of them is beating his chest that he has the resources and that he will do what he wants to do in the party. But PDP was formed by rich men. It was formed by people who were richer in terms of intellectual capacity and vision for the country. In order words, this is all about the rigging that took place and the conventions? It is all about the rigging at the convention and lack of remorse that we are seeing in the party. We have provided leadership for 16 years, and we still fail to understand that we have some shortcomings. We generated ideas on why we lost election and we agreed to make sure that we stopped those things that made us to lose election. As documented, the organs of the party agreed to heed to the reports. None was implemented and there was no sign of remorse. No decent person will love to be part of the party. Does that mean you did not accept the  reconciliation process at any time? It is not about accepting the reconciliation, it’s about the facts. I have told you that Dickson is one of the gifts PDP has. He is a very committed member of the party, forthright and courageous, but have they given him the opportunity? He started the reconciliation but from no where they went to constitute another reconciliation committee, ignoring or forgetting there is an exiting one. They reconstituted a reconciliation committee, perhaps to debase him despite his being a governor. If you don’t want him to do the job why then did you give him the job. If you make him a chairman of reconciliation committee hands off and allow him to do his job. There are some of us that are above board we have seen this thing right from our childhood. And we have learnt to be honest and sincere with ourselves. When we were building PDP we built it with absolutely sincerity and commitment to this nation, no other factor was considered. The enhancement of Nigeria’s protection of lives and property, the participation of every minute tribe in this country were the ideals behind PDP. We wanted a viable country, we didn’t factor in individuals or parochial interests, other wise the founding fathers will say they should be the first beneficiaries of whatever slot that comes to the party. A typical example is the sacrifice that was make by the Late Alex Ekwueme. But when he died, the party was reminded even to go and condole the family. What kind of people are we? Are we normal human beings? The answer is no. I was not a liability to PDP rather PDP was a liability to me. I have invested my time and resources to build this party I fought Ali Sheriff because of my commitment to PDP. I was not benefiting anything from the party. I wasn’t given any federal appointment or contract. I challenge anybody to go and check. But because I was youngest founding father of the party, the youngest in the midst of G-7, I felt this is my family home. Having fought for this party from the onset as one of the young founding fathers, how does it feel to be edged out of the party by two governors? They didn’t edge me out of the party. I have to tell myself the bitter truth.  I am a politician, I didn’t join politics because I am a blind person, or because I have no vision or ambition. As young as I am I have my own ambition. I want to reach the peak of my career like any other person. And if you belong to a movement that retards development of vision, I have no business being there. It is not a religious organisation. It is not a church or a mosque. So what you are saying is that you have explored all the avenues for reconciliation in PDP? We have explored all of avenues to redeem PDP, and I am saying all avenues as documented. We have appeared in all media organizations in the world trying to defend this party at all cost, not at the cost of the party but at our own. There is no media program in which I defended PDP that I was paid for. I did it simply because I love the party passionately. I am more of an investor in PDP than most of them. Perhaps, only the founding fathers of the party have made more investments in PDP than me. If I was looking for money I would have gone to APC. But I am a disciplined person. We were trained to build institutions. If you build institutions, you may not benefit from it immediately but future generations will benefit from it. Those who built PDP are not benefiting from it today. Those benefiting are not founders of the party. So if the founders didn’t sacrifice for the party where would we be by now. Who would have restored democracy back to the system? So in essence you are saying PDP is irredeemable? Yes, PDP is irredeemable. You can quote me anywhere. There is no one with capacity to redeem PDP right now. The people that have the capacity to do so have all left. And I can tell you that we are some of those who have the capacity. We have the capacity to deal with any issue with any individual. I am not reducing anybody but I can tell you that if at this material time the political colossus like Prof Jerry Gana, who is the custodian of the power and oratory the party, who has ideas flowing like water and a commitment to defend the party at all cost, has left the party then it tells a lot. Another political juggernaut, Prof Tunde Adeniran, took the PDP to the South-west. Can you have one person that can replace him in the PDP today? None, I challenge any person in PDP. Who is that person that has the commitment and acumen of Adeniran in the PDP? So it is not about personal or parochial issues but personal interest. The country is tearing apart politically and we need a rescue team. And we have come as a rescue team to salvage the country. Are you worried by the interpretations arising from your defection such that some people feel because your candidate lost out at the convention, you then decided to leave the party? These are infantile interpretations. I didn’t steal or commit any crime. I can’t be worried about peoples perception. I am worried about who I am as a human being. God made me who I am. We put them in offices. I have not gone to any governor or minister to beg for any favour through out my life, even when we formed the party. I have never done that. I am a principled person. I stand by what I believe in. It is God that gives and takes power. What is critical for any citizen or politician is to do something that will protect the system, don’t be part of a group that will undermine the system because you don’t know who will come in. The successor generation of the party derailed. The younger generations betrayed the older generations in the PDP because there were no tutoring systems. People who didn’t know the core values of PDP came into the party. They didn’t know the core fundamentals of the party so they came in with greed and selfish ambition which are the things that derailed the party. Part of what affected the PDP convention was presidential ambition of aspirants. How sir? Everybody was positioning  to have the structure of the party at the convention. They all wanted to be president, including those that can’t even mention that  they want to be president. Some people mortgaged the convention because they want to be president. But your team could also be accused of positioning itself to produce the presidential candidate of the party as well? Perhaps you may have someone in mind that have been speculated. It was speculated that Prof Jerry Gana had intention to emerge PDP presidential candidate? That was speculated by people who have defeatist behavior. People who see Prof Gana as a threat are the ones using that blackmail and they are still using today. But are they not mindful of the fact that he has contested for president before? Have they forgotten? More over, doesn’t he have the right to vie for presidency? Do I not have the right to vie for presidency? Those vying for presidency do they have higher right than anyone of us? Why shouldn’t we accuse them that they are being financed by somebody to become president? Or that their camp is being financed by somebody to become president? In any case, I think it is very parochial and low-thinking for an individual to assume that the party is positioning its self for the presidential ambition of an individual. We don’t have the power to know whether the individual will get there or not. So it’s a complex affair that has manifested. And believing that at our own level, we would, at this stage where the structure was not formal start thinking of fixing someone as president. We are not daft. We are well trained and polished in the act of politics. We know what power is all about. What was the role of the former chairman of the National Caretaker Committee, Sen Ahmed Makarfi in all of this? He had presidential ambition. So he ought not to have presided over the convention. In a civilized society where a presiding officer of a party has clearly shown ambition to run for presidency of a country, under sense of responsibility and morality, he ought to have stepped down. But he conducted the convention and overheated the process of its transparency. Did you move a motion for his resignation and not to conduct the convention? You attended my conferences, we made direct accusations. I owe no one an apology I am speaking from my heart based on facts. I have engaged this party more than any other person in recent history by telling them to do what is right. I have done that in writing, through the media. In fact, at a point I was seen as a maximum threat to them. I am no threat to them but to injustice, lack of equity and fairness. The party does not belong to an individual it belongs to the country and if we don’t build a base for the citizens to have a participation, then it is bound to collapse. PDP survived this whole period of crisis simply because we opened a space, other wise, Jonathan wouldn’t have been president being a member from the minority. The sense of justice, fairness, equity and oneness of Nigeria that provided that platform for Jonathan to go for president is what the party was all about. Parties are not built and centered around individuals or else it will collapse. So the collapse of the party was as a result of the presidential aspirants who partook in the process and mislead the party. But in this situation I can tell you that they are not competent to be politicians or presidential candidates. If one individual will mislead you and tell you that you can be candidate then you are not qualified to be president.  And series of presidential aspirants are on the heel visiting one single individual who will finance them to be the president then they are not capable of providing leadership for this country. And I am sorry to say they should step down. They shouldn’t bother to vie for president of this country. If you don’t have what it takes to convince Nigerians to vote for you and because you have to rely on one individual to finance your ambition, you mortgaged the strategic interest of the party, how then will you realize the presidential ambition? So why did you choose the SDP? Simple. In 1999, when the country was stranded, a group of few people came together and decided to dare the consequences of the military regime and they started a movement that led to the formation of a political party. That party was formed and it rescued Nigeria. Three political parties, PDP, AD and APP (later ANPP) were formed. Nigeria was provided with options. Because PDP has better programs that accommodated all shades of opinions, PDP was accepted. Today we have similar circumstances. APC is in dilemma and PDP is down on its knees. So there is need for a platform that can rescue the country once again. And simply because we don’t want to be accused of being over ambitious or looking for money, we decided not to go to APC. We decided to look for a platform that will be acceptable to all Nigerians. We didn’t say we will go and register our own party. We have all it takes to register a political party. But we decided to put the nation and the people first. So we looked at all the political parties, read through their manifestos and programs. We also looked at their history, credibility and experience. Luckily enough, SDP was still in existence. Unfortunately NRC has gone under. But in the course of our research, it is on record that no registered party in the history of Nigeria got massive votes from all Nigerians irrespective of tribe or religion, like the SDP. We also saw that the party produced a President and Vice President from the same religion which is unique in the history of Nigeria. Nigerians didn’t look at the religious and ethnic dichotomy, or parochial and sectional issues, when it voted for the party. The party had built capacity, policies and programs that were accepted by all diversities. Everybody felt a sense of belonging in that party. And we asked ourselves some very salient questions, like can we rig this party? Can we remodel it? Can we discuss with the leadership of the party? Were the former managers of the party willing to accept this need to rejig the party? To all these questions the answer was yes. So we went into open consultations. The discussions were wonderful. I must thank Chief Olu Falae. He is one of the few rare nationalists that we can find today, somebody that is willing to step down and leave his position in the interest of the party. We have never found him resistant at all. The entire structure of SDP were willing to step down for experienced and competent people to come into the party and move it forward. It is very rare to find them in any political party. So we must thank them for putting the country first. They could have said no after seeing the powerful people that are coming into the party and insisted on continuing to run the party. But they conceded to superior issues. You hardly find this. So, I thank Olu Falae and his team for providing leadership and that sense of nationalism. It is said that Prof Jerry Gana had abinitio started working towards formation of the SDP, especially during the crisis period in PDP. What’s your reaction to this? I was a member of the committee. So I have first hand knowledge of all that happened. The talks was not just about SDP alone. There was the Labour Party, PRP and so many others. What we were doing at that time was to look at how we can strengthen the PDP because we were not in power. So we needed other parties, either to fuse or form an alliance with PDP. In 1999, PDP partnered with some parties, including the AD. It is normal in a democratic dispensation. So went to Ibadan to meet the SDP, we also went to Kaduna to meet with Alhaji Balarabe Musa and his party. We went round the country, maybe people were not knowledgeable about this. And they were ready to fuse into PDP. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed. And we said in case we lost at the Supreme Court, we will not leave the party under Sheriff. We will all move into SDP based on the criteria I told you earlier. That was agreed. Had it been we lost at the Supreme Court, the next day we would have addressed a world press conference and declared that we are joining the SDP.  Governors and former ministers were briefed about this. So that committee was strategic and interparty affairs. The inter-party affairs is what we did. I was a member of the strategy committee. If you say Jerry Gana was part of the formation of SDP was he not part of the formation of PDP? It shows he is a resource person and a material to be desired. Why where others not part of it? Is it everybody that can be part of something where they cannot contribute? Can you give what you don’t have? People have capacity given to them by God and nobody can take it away from them. And if they are injecting it into the system for the sake of the country, you dare not go after them on parochial issues that don’t make any sense. You do not bring religious issues into a political party. Some people are saying SDP is a CAN agenda, and I wonder what kind of sick mentality is that. I am a Fulani man, my father and mother are Fulani. I am a born Muslim and I am not daft to be diverted into something that is not reasonable to me. So these are cheap blackmail by people who are feeling defeated already. And I am telling you that Nigerians will come to terms with this very soon. We will engage them in terms of marketing who we are, we will counter their propaganda, point for point and they should know that we have more against them than they have against us. We are ready to go to the field. When you say you have more against them than they have against you, are you talking of defectors into your party or that you are the much sought after coalition? As for the potential of getting new members, you have seen it from the first day we called a meeting at Sheraton Hotel in Abuja.  There were no sufficient seats for people to sit because the place was over crowded. The very day we announced SDP the whole country changed. SDP became the subject of analysis and discussion across Nigeria because credible people have moved into it. We have the idea and capacity of what it takes to build a political party. Are you expecting some governors to move into your party? What options do they have? How many are you expecting? Just wait, you will see. I am not here to declassify who we are. Just be patient. What are the roles of former presidents Obasanjo and Babangida in all this? People have mentioned, Obasanjo and Babangida. Let me give you a clear picture of what happened. Immediately the convention went the way it did, we started consultations. We have been going round the country consulting people. We consulted virtually all those that matter on the situation of the party and the country. We needed something urgent to rescue the system. We did more than sufficient consultation. At the last lap of our consultations, Obasanjo came up with his letter. We didn’t know its origin or what convinced him to come up with that letter. Thereafter, President Babangida came up with his own letter. So by people’s thinking and in trying to compare scenarios, they assumed that we are driven by them. But we started our consultations before the letters. But when you are doing something good for the country, you can see that ideas are fusing and the space is being narrowed because, once it is in the interest of the country everybody will key in. You cannot question the sense of nationalism of former Presidents Obasanjo and Babangida and all others down the line. So anybody who shares similar believe that the country needs to be rescued will join this system.  I have no doubt in my mind that anybody who sees the way APC is messing up the country, showing acts of nepotism and incompetence in managing the affairs of this country; as well as the lack of remorse, continued imposition and acts of arrogance displayed by the PDP, will know that there is a need for another system to rescue the country. We serve as an intervention body that will rescue the people from PDP and APC. I am delight to tell you that indeed the traffic into our party is heavy. Aren’t you bothered by the timing. I believe you want to get presidency but the election is barely months always? I am surprised you are saying this. If you are a student of PDP, we never have time on every thing we do. Everything about PDP was a crash program. Three months after PDP was registered, we went into election in 1999. So what are you talking about time. We have almost eight to nine months before the 2019 general election. Any serious party can get its acts together within five months, not to talk of us that are veterans in the field. It’s doesn’t take anything. It simply requires for us to get our act together and put our men at the strategic trenches that matter. Naturally, people who have interest and ambition will key in on their own and you will have the party running. And that is what we have done. We have provided the platform, leadership, space and ambience, so what more can any politician need. We are working in tandem with INEC’s programs. We are not going outside the INEC timetable. We will key into it. PDP and APC have since keyed into the program. So nothing is new. Is SDP part of Obasanjo’s national coalition ? We are part of the coalition. I am part of the contact and mobilisation committee. So we are here, virtually all of them are here. I cannot tell you it’s 100 percent but I can tell you that 70 percent of all the coalitions are in this movement.