Following his comments on the September 3rd, 2016 governorship primary election in Ondo state, A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) the state , Oluwole Ogunmolasuyi, has asked the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu to apologize to the national leadership of the APC and President Buhari. Ogunmolasuyi said instead of wooing delegates, Ojudu has caused an unnecessary stir during a radio program in Akure, the state capital on the conduct of the primary election which secured Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu the ticket of the party in the 2016 gubernatorial election. Ojudu during a program on a popular private radio in Akure had said that the Ondo Formula will not work in Ekiti state , stressing that he will resist rigging in the forthcoming governorship primary election of the party. Ogunmolasuyi described Ojudu’s statement as laughable, adding that the President aide has not spoken like a true party person and a leader. The APC Chieftain in a statement titled “Akeredolu is a Product of a Free, Fair and Credible Primary Election ” told Ojudu that no formula was used in Ondo State. Ogunmolasuyi said “The Primary election that brought in Governor Akeredolu was free , fair and credible. The election was covered live by prominent television national stations across the country “People within and outside the country saw how the election went. It is unfortunate that an aide of the President would come on a radio program and attempt to discredit a primary election which the President himself has described as free, fair and credible and also a template for other elections “It is therefore an affront to the party’s internal democracy and coup against the successes of the party in its democratic principles, for Senator Ojudu to publicly attempt to rubbish a clean and applauded efforts of the national leadership of the party in the Ondo state primary election “We see Ojudu as one of those who are hell bent on sercumventing the People’s mandate, which is not possible “Any serious aspirant will sell his program to the delegate and approach the party leadership if there is any suspicious move around “We are calling on Senator Ojudu to retract his statement and apologize to the party leadership including his boss, President Buhari.” Ogunmolasuyi noted that the free and fair primary election which gave Governor Akeredolu the APC ticket in 2016 secured him the number one citizen job in the state. He said “it is without doubt that Leadership of our great party will conduct free and fair election in Ekiti sate, but let no unpopular aspirant hinged his rejection to an unfounded and imaginary formula in Ondo. “