Ahead the 2018 World Cup in Russia, Liberia President, George Weah has given Nigeria’s Super Eagles tips on how to perform well in the Mundial. In a joint press conference at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, alongside President Muhammadu Buhari, Weah emphasised that early preparation is key to the Super Eagles success . Weah, who was on a one day visit to Nigeria, added that the government must do everything to ensure that the players are not stressed and their incentives are given to them to motivate them. He said “I must first say your excellency, thank you very much because is not an easy task to qualify for World Cup. Because every government in Africa complains when it comes to sports. “I was amazed the other sitting before Macron, he talked about his sports agenda because he believes you can build capacity through sports, and through sports you can also encourage people to work, to do what they want to do. “I have been fighting for so long for my national team to qualify. Imagine, in the world best here in Africa, the only world best. And I said to President Macron, that FIFA built one stadium in Liberia and we have one Ballon Dor, so if you build 10 stadia in Liberia, you will have 10 ballon Dors. “I think Nigerian team is a model, we all followed them. I have played with great Nigerian players, I played against them. Now you have a new generation, the fact that they qualified is a good thing for Nigeria. “But I hope that they will prepare very early because they are going to represent Africa and we will be there to watch them, for them to bring the trophy for the first time if it is possible. “But I think the seriousness to go to l World Cup is not to pay players to go, I want every African government to know, if you win World Cup is a pride to Africa is not just to Nigeria, so we must do everything to ensure that the players are not stressed, make sure they concentrate, make sure their incentives are given to them to motivate them. Continuing “Some of the things you see at the World Cup, you will see an entire team go to represent a whole country and you will hear that one minister took the money, they did not pay these players and the players are causing problem. “When players are going to camp is to relax and focus. And for them to be in camp they must have everything there for them not to worry. Remember I played in European setting, when we go camp we have nothing to do. The only thing we have to do is to take a shower and prepare for the game, everything is laid down here and so you have no excuse. “So let the players not have excuse, support them and let them go and bring back that cup,” he stated.