President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday scored his government high, saying even the worst enemies of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) know that his administration has tried its best within the two and half years it has been in power. Buhari who spoke in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, during a stakeholders meeting at the EXCO chamber of Government House said he has a way of gathering his own information. The president’s visit to Taraba is part of his tour of the epicenters of killings in the country, including Benue, Yobe, Zamfara and Rivers States. Buhari stated that the number of people killed on the Mambilla Plateau were more than those who died in Benue and Zamfara States. “I came here today to sympathise with those who lost their lives and to condole the family of those who lost their loved ones. The number of people killed on the Mambilla Plateau was more than those killed in Benue and Zamfara States”. He stated that the task of ensuring that members of a community live in peace should not be left to government alone, just as he said traditional rulers in the state have a major role to play in uniting their people of different ethnic and religious affiliations for peaceful coexistence. The president urged sons and daughters of the state to continue to accommodate each other, stressing that without peace there would be no development. Earlier, Taraba State governor, Darius Ishaku said before he came on board as governor of the state, Taraba was divided along religious and tribal lines. “Before my coming as governor, Taraba State was facing religious and tribal issues, but within my few years in office, I have done my best to ensure that those problems are resolved”, he noted. He thanked the president for the visit, assuring that his administration would continue to do its best to ensure that there is peace in the state. He also assured that government would do its best to ensure that the Mambilla Hydro power project succeeds. Earlier in the day, the presidency had disclosed that starting from yesterday, President Buhari will visit Taraba, Benue, Yobe, Zamfara and Rivers States. The special adviser to the president on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, state this in a statement. According to the presidential spokesman, the president has decided to undertake an on-the-spot assessment of the various occurrences and to meet and console the communities affected. He said the president called on all Nigerians, especially those in the affected areas, to cooperate fully with the security agencies to enable them curb the spate of crimes, bring those responsible to justice and prevent further occurrences Adesina said, “In view of recent terrorist attacks, criminal activities and communal clashes in some states leading to tragic loss of lives and kidnapping of 110 schoolgirls, President Muhammadu Buhari immediately tasked the Armed Forces and other Security agencies to compile comprehensive reports on the various incidents. “Having received and studied the reports, the President has decided to undertake an on the spot assessment of the various occurrences and to meet and console the communities affected. “From today, March 5, he will visit Taraba, and subsequently Benue, Yobe, Zamfara and Rivers States. President Buhari has been receiving daily briefings, and has been in constant touch with the Governors, and has been updated with situation reports”.