LEADERSHIP Newspaper has bagged the 2018 Corporate Award of the Ahmadu Bello University(ABU) Alumni Association.The award  will be presented at the 2018 dinner and award ceremony of the Alumni association scheduled to hold April 14th. Announcing the award yesterday, when he led other members of the association to the corporate headquarters of LEADERSHIP, the ABU Alumni association president, Prof Ahmed Tijjani Mora said the award was in recognition of the newspaper’s  show of professionalism in reportage and its numerous contributions in deepening democracy in Nigeria. Prof Mora, described LEADERSHIP Newspaper as a unique brand for policy makers “which also offers something unique for the common man”. He also hailed the debut of LEADERSHIP Ayau, the only daily vernacular newspaper in the country, for promoting indigenous language in Nigeria and also reading culture, describing it as a success. Prof. Mora noted that the award which is an annual event, is organised to celebrate individuals and corporate organisations that have shown distinction in their different areas of specialisation. ‘’On behalf of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Ahmadu Bello University Alumni Association, I wish to notify you that the association has decided to honour you with the Corporate Award . “The Awards ceremony is the climax and one of the components of the 2018 Annual Public Lecture, Dinner and Recognition Awards which provides a platform to honour some of our very distinguished Alumni members and friends of the University all over the country and beyond, who have an outstanding record of performance both in the public and private sectors.’’ Prof Mora noted that the choice of awardees is not influenced but based on their immense contribution to national development. While stressing the need for an enduring partnership between the association and LEADERSHIP, Prof Mora said ‘’Yes, what we want to achieve is first, fellowship. We want to fellowship together, which is part of our objectives and secondly we want to showcase the greatness of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) as an institution.” He sought the support of LEADERSHIP newspaper in providing effective publicity to the association before, during and after the award.In a brief remarks, the chairman, LEADERSHIP Newspapers, Sam Nda-Isaiah said: ‘’We are grateful to be fully part of this. I will like to appreciate you for the show of love to us. You are simply a LEADERSHIP Newspaper publicist. “I want to assure you of LEADERSHIP’s support and partnership,’’ he said while urging the association to sustain the good works it has been doing in different areas including providing infrastructural development in their alma mater. 