The minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun on behalf of the federal government, inaugurated the governing boards of four agencies under the Federal Ministry of Finance yesterday in Abuja. The boards are the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Nigerian Export Import Bank (NEXIM) and Agriculture Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (ACGSF). The minister of Finance is chairman of the Customs Board while CG Customs, Colonel Hamid Ali as its deputy chairman. According to the list, CBN deputy governor will chair NEXIM Bank. On the other hand, Mr. Emmanuel Jideofor is the chairman of the board of NAICOM, while ACGSF has Mrs. Olubunmi Siyanbola as chairman of the board. Inaugurating the boards, the minister urged the appointees to take pragmatic steps to reposition the respective institutions entrusted to them. “Enhance performance through efficient management of accrued resources for national development. The inauguration of the board is critical to driving our mandate,” Adeosun said. Mrs Adeosun said the mandate of NAICOM, NCS and NEXIM revolves around the five pillars of the federal government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and the various executive orders. She said the reconstitution of the boards provide a platform for synergy between members and management for effective implementation of policies and programmes of government. “Board members are saddled with policy formation, while management is saddled with execution and day-to-day execution of the policies. For the President to have chosen youis because of the trust he has in you. “I offer you my support and the support of the Ministry of Finance. We are here to support you,” she said. Speaking on behalf of the board members, chairman of NAICOM board, Mr Nwosu expressed the delight of the members for the privilege to serve as governing members of the boards. He praised the efforts of the federal government to reposition the financial sector and increase revenue generation, saying it is a “catalyst for developing the Nigerian economy.” He commended the minister of Finance and her team of experts “for their various efforts at repositioning the economy, particularly, the ERGP and VAIDS.”