A candidate writing the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), Joy Akpabio was yesterday caught by the Federal Capital Territory Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps as she allegedly hid a phone in her private part to beat the security checks. Akpabio and her accomplice, Andrew Etziuala were arrested at Baptist Academy, one of the Computer Based Test (CBT) Centre at Karu, a suburb of  Abuja. Parading the suspect, the Commandant of NSCDC, Mr Patrick Akpan, disclosed that Akpabio concealed the handset inside her pant and went in undetected, adding that while the examination was going on she brought it out to use. He said the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) camera was able to pick her and she was immediately arrested. Akpan explained that it was during interrogation that her accomplice was arrested, saying Andrew Etziuala introduced her into the business and was equally involved in sending messages of supposed answers to the questions of the examination she was doing. “They are in our custody now and we are going to carry out further investigation regarding their involvement and if there  are other accomplices, they will equally be traced and arrested and thereafter be prosecuted in a law court,” he said. Speaking on the arrest, the spokesperson of JAMB, Dr Fabian Benjamin said it would serve as deterrent to others as the Board had deployed all arsenals to ensure that no one cheats in the examination and go scot-free. “We want to sound it very clear that there is no shortcut to success and whatever you do in the examination, you will be spotted. It is no longer business as usual. “This particular candidate was caught with things that were not supposed to be in examination hall. She went in with her phone and responses were sent to her. But we discovered that those responses were for 1990 questions and not for 2018 questions at all,” he said. He said the items banned from examination hall include, cell phones, watches, cameras, recorders, calculators, spy glasses, bluetooth devices and smart lenses among others. Benjamin disclosed that over 800,000 candidates have already sat for the examination across the centres in the Federation as at the close of Monday, saying the exercise has so far been smooth in spite of some challenges in some of the centres. He added that where such challenges occurred efforts were made to immediately address them to enable the candidates take their examination. While responding to questions from journalists, Akpabio said that she had sat for JAMB for more than four times and was unable to secure admission adding she brought in her phone so that she would receive answers from Etziuala. Akpabio who had applied to study Business Administration,claimed that other candidates were using their phones when she was caught. Her accomplice, Etziuala who commissioned to send answers to her phone, explained that the answers were generated by another member of the syndicate operating from a business centre in Jikwoyi. He said the suspect at large, allegedly hacked into JAMB examination questions and generated answers which were forwarded to him (Etziuala), who in turn forward them to Akpabio in the examination hall. Etziuala, who said he was a student of Federal Polytechnic Nasarawa, said he regretted his action describing it as a big mistake, “I did not know it will lead to something like this. I am just bothered that this has tarnished my image and others should learn from it,” he said.