A former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola has thrown his weight behind Chief Adebisi Akande, also a former governor in the state for the emergence of the next governor of the state from Osun West zone. Speaking at his country home in Okuku, Oyinlola at a meeting with former legislators, Commissioners, local government chairmen, special advisers, executive assistants and other political appointees who served with him when in office said it is imperative that the next governor come from the district in the spirit of justice and fairness. Oyinlola insisted that the next governor should be a youth with requisite education and exposure to manage a 21st century state. The former governor who confirmed that he had received representations from critical stakeholders in the state asking him to contest the September 22 governorship election said he would not do so because it would negate all principles of fairness and equity and would also run counter to his message of generational change in leadership at all levels. “I will not contest, not because I am not qualified to do so, but because it will be against all tenets of fairness. There is a Senatorial district that has ruled this state for only 22 months out of its 27 years of existence. This coming election must be used to correct that anomaly and give the people of that district, Osun West, a sense of belonging. “Also, as National coordinator of the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), I have been at the vanguard of the campaign for the election and choice of our youths into positions of leadership. I am 67 years old and that cannot be the age of a youth. I am therefore committed to ensuring that the next governor of Osun state is a youth with fresh ideas and the right education. “On the age of the next Governor, starting from the first republic, the average age of governors (or Premiers) here has ranged from between 37 and 50. Chief Awolowo became Leader of Government business in 1952 at the age of 42. He left office as Premier in 1959 at the age of 50. “Chief Akintola became premier in 1959 at the age of 49. He was born in 1910. Chief Bola Ige became Governor in 1979 at the age of 49. Alhaji Isiaka Adeleke became Governor in 1992 at the age of 37. Chief Bisi Akande became Governor in 1999 at the age of 60, he left at 64. I became Governor here in 2003 at the age of 52. I left at 59. Mr. Rauf Aregbesola became Governor of Osun State in 2010 at the age of 53. “From the above, we will see that apart from one occasion (Chief Akande), the age of governors here has been between 37 and 53. “Going forward, we should be seen as improving and doing better. The next Governor of this state should be an improvement on those of us who have been privileged to be here. Indeed, my advice to our people is that the next Governor should not be older than 50 years or thereabouts.”