The near chopping off of the hand of a corps member, Luntis Julius, last week by suspected cult members has thrown up issues by corps members serving in Bayelsa State, Osa Okhomina writes Luntis Julius, a 28-year-old from Taraba State had never had cause to experience fear even when he was posted to Bayelsa State for his mandatory one-year participation in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme. He had never also had cause to feel unsafe. These, however, came to an abrupt end on 20 March, 2018 when he was attacked by some suspected cult members. Even as he escaped with his dear life, the corps member would never be the same ago physically and psychologically. As he had been mentally traumatised, he also practically lost an arm to the daredevil cult members. But the night of Sunday, 18 March, 2018 will be one to be forever remembered by the corps member. He nearly lost his life when four armed men invaded the corpers’ lodge residence where he stays and robbed them at gun point. He was cut with machetes and he nearly lost his left hand. Suspected cultists attacked a Corpers’ Lodge at Angalabiri community of Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. Also stolen from the Corpers Lodge were a Laptop, two mobile phones and the sum of N10,000. The police had, however, confirmed the arrest of three suspects involved in the Sunday attack. The arrest of the suspect, according to the police, was made possible by the indigenes of the community who were shocked by the dastardly acts. The suspects arrested were identified as Mosan Moses Youdougha, (22) and Godswill Vincent,(21). The Third suspect arrested by the community is yet to be handed to the police. Confirming the development,  the Police Public Relations Officer, Astimin Butswat, confirmed the arrests and said further investigations were ongoing to arrest the fourth suspect currently at large. According to Butswat, “At about 12pm on Monday, the police with the help of youths of Angalabiri community arrested two persons involved in the attack and robbery of some persons at the lodge in the area.” LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered the incident, which happened on Sunday at about 2.30am caused panic among corps members serving in the Sagbama Local Government Area. A corps member, who pleaded anonymity, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that the security promised corps members in Bayelsa State was non-existent. According to him, “Most of the corpers’ odges are at the mercy of armed hoodlums and thieves. Sometimes, female corps members are harassed on daily basis. “ Only our days before the attack on the corpers’ lodge, the Bayelsa State Coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs. Loto Bolade, during a stakeholders workshop organised by the agency,  had pleaded with the State Government and the corps employers to put facilities in place to adequately address the issue of the security and welfare of corps members. In her words,  “Corps members are your children within the one-year they are posted to your establishment, it is your responsibility to give the corps members the best basic accommodation with adequate security, the same type you give to your children and also see that you augment their monthly allowances to enable them serve the nation better.” “We have heard of cases of armed robbery and other crimes in corpers lodges in their host communities, most of these crimes can be traced to the nature of accommodation they are given.  This is unfortunate and I urge this forum to proffer lasting solution”, she stressed. A complaint that made the Governor Seriake Dickson assure corps members deployed to the state of adequate security against cases of armed attacks and invasion of corpers lodges in some parts of the state. According to Dickson, the state government will continue to adopt proactive measures towards ensuring adequate security and welfare of corps members posted in the state. Governor Seriake Dickson,who gave the assurance on Wednesday in Yenagoa while flagging-off a one-day workshop organised by the management of the NYSC in the state for corps employers and other stakeholders in the state, said  the security measures are necessary because of the contributions of corps members to various sectors of the state’s economy are crucial to the government’s drive to make the state a centre of attraction. Dickson, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government and Chairman, NYSC State Governing Board, Mr. Kemela Okara, urged the employers and community leaders to assist the government in providing conducive environment for corps members to discharge their responsibilities. He frowned at cases of rejection, under utilization and unfriendly disposition of some corps employers to the youths on national assignment, noting that having a cordial relationship and paying attention to the needs of the corps members will help them to settle down to their duties. The governor used the forum to thank the former military head of state, General Yakubu Gowon, for establishing the NYSC scheme and urged corps members to justify the essence of the scheme by imbibing the ideals of discipline, patriotism, hard work and commitment to duty in order to excel in whatever ventures they undertake. His hand was not cut off—NYSC The NYSC authorities of the in Bayelsa State have denied the report that the hand of the corps member attacked by four armed robbers during the attack on the Corpers’ Lodge was cut off. According to the NYSC, though the 28 years old corps member, Luntis Julius from Taraba State.  was fatally injured in the left hand, the hand was not chopped off as reported. The Bayelsa State Coordinator, Mrs Loto Bolade Omolayo , who was speaking after a visit to the Injured Corps Member at the Niger Delta University Teaching Hospital, Okolobiri in Yenagoa Local Government Area, said after series of surgical operations, the condition of the Corps member is stable and he is responding to treatment. Omolayo, in the statement issued yesterday via email, confirmed that the corps member was severely injured but to the glory of God, the hand was not cut off. She expressed joy that after the operation on the hand, the Corps Member is responding to Treatment. “ I visited the  corps member in the Hospital for a first hand assessment of his condition and I am happy to state that he is responding to treatment.” While thanking the community and the Police for swiftly arresting the suspects, She strongly condemned the attack on the Corps Member. She also expressed gratitude to the NDU Teaching Hospital for the prompt attention given to the injured Corps Member.