Barely days after a threat to withdraw the certificate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), one of its former national chairmen, Dr Bamanga Tukur, yesterday handed over the certificate of the party to the Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. LEADERSHIP reliably gathered that the event which took place at the residence of Tukur had in attendance members of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC). The original certificate of the party had been with Tukur since 2013, butrefused to hand it over to former chairmen, Adamu Mu’azu and Sen Ali Modu Sheriff. The PDP had last week, tackled the minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, over his comments suggesting that PDP should be deregistered by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC) because it has failed as an opposition party much like it did as a ruling party.
According to a source at the meeting, Tukur, a founding father of the party who had been in possession of the party’s certificate of registration, said the former chairman handed over the original copy to the party leadership. Tukur, it was learnt, told the party delegation that he had always desired to give the original copy to a properly constituted NWC of the party. The source said, “Baba told them that he has been approached by different leaderships of the party for the original copy of the certificate but he refused to hand it over. The former chairman also maintained that he vowed to give it to a properly elected leadership of the party.” Some of the PDP NWC members at the meeting were the national secretary, Ibrahim Tsuari; deputy national chairman North, Gamawa Garba; national youth leader, Udeh Okoye; woman leader, Mariya Waziri; and national organising secretary, Col Austin Akobundu (rtd). Another party source at the meeting said the former chairman admonished the NWC members to work and support his successor. “The former PDP chairman said they should support the new chairman and not to undermine him. He told them to ensure that they tell him when he does anything wrong,” the source said.
The former chairman was said to have also reminded the party leadership that PDP was founded on the principles of fairness and justice and it should remain like that.