Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) Mai Mala Buni has joined the ranks of is one of the aspirants for the APC governorship ticket in Yobe State. The national secretary, who is serving his second term in office as APC scribe is said to have the endorsement of the state’s top political leaders. However, another gubernatorial aspirant in the state, Alhaji Umar Ali has punctured the alleged endorsement, saying that the APC scribe cannot take the state to the Promised Land. Umar, who was speaking to the media at the APC headquarters in Abuja said that no any endorsement would work, as the people were politically awake now. Also, he said the Direct Primaries which the party has adopted cannot enhance the endorsement of an aspirant. Asked about his feeling of the alleged endorsement of Buni, he said, “l think this is a very simple question, Our people already are politically awake. They know the capacity of everybody among the people that are contesting. So if Mai Mala Buni can be able to take them to the promise land, they will vote for him. If they know am the one to take them to the promise land, I know they will vote for me. So I don’t fear on any of these things and by endorsing Mala does not mean the party has given him the ticket. So let’s go for the primaries! I think our programmes, our activities, what we have done and are doing for the state should be the yard stick the people are going to use to choose their governor. “Formally, if you are a sitting governor you can endorse somebody for governor but l am telling you now, our people are awake and by that endorsement there are a lot of complaints everywhere in the state. If you have been listening to radio and reading papers you would have heard it. “I think it is good for Nigeria to choose their leaders and not somebody to choose for them because it is not their constitutional right and it is not in the constitution of the party. So I don’t think it is a problem and those things are not going to stop me. We are going to continue and I think my supporters are going to give me the ticket. The APC national secretary had served as state chairman of the Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) before he we elected National Secretary of APC after merger.