Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, yesterday charged Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to explain the logic behind the federal government’s decision to share $322 million Abacha’s loot but later obtained a $328 million loan from China for ICT development in the country. Atiku’s stated this while replying Osinbajo who criticised him for advancing a vague definition of restructuring. The former Vice President who rejected Osinbajo’s assertion that his ideas on restructuring were vague, accused Osinbajo of making a u-turn on the issue of restructuring. Atiku, in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday, the former Vice President said of Osinbajo: “Faced with an avalanche of public condemnation for his 360-degree turn on the concept of restructuring, it is understandable that the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, has written toPremium Times to douse the tension his comments created. However, in doing so, the Vice President should not attempt to revise history by saying that he spoke against ‘geographic restructuring.’ “I have been in the forefront of the discourse on restructuring since the 1995 Abacha Constitutional Conference and to the best of my knowledge, there has not been any term like ‘geographic restructuring’. It is a strange concept, not only because it is not what the restructuring debate is all about, but also because the words of the Vice President, which prompted my response where clear, unambiguous and unequivocal. “Mr. Osinbajo said, ‘the problem with our country is not a matter of restructuring.’ That I disagree with and so do many other Nigerians. If the Vice President has changed his stance, I welcome it, but we should not use one finger to hide behind semantics. “For the Vice President to say ‘Alhaji Atiku’s concept of restructuring is understandably vague, because he seeks to cover every aspect of human existence in that definition”, is most unfortunate. “I have been very clear, detailed, and unambiguous about my ideas for restructuring. At several occasions, including, but not limited to my speeches at the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House), and at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (made in April this year and  July 2017, respectively), I gave very clear and concise ideas about restructuring including: