The managing director and chief executive of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim yesterday disclosed that former board chairman of the defunct Skye Bank, Tunde Ayeni and former managing director, Timothy Oguntayo, are being investigated for their roles in the bank.
Speaking on the sidelines of the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI) Africa Regional Committee (ARC) workshop in Lagos yesterday, the NDIC boss said investigations have already commenced and law agencies will do their work once the investigations have been concluded.
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), NDIC and the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria had last week Friday revoked the operating licence of Skye Bank following its financial instability, thus necessitating the regulators to rename it Polaris Bank and a capital injection of about $2 billion.
“They (former directors of defunct Skye Bank) are being investigated and I can assure that when the time comes, the necessary relevant security and law enforcement agencies will do their work” Ibrahim stated. The licence of Skye Bank was revoked after shareholders failed to recapitalise the bank and its assets and liabilities transferred to newly licensed Polaris Bank Limited owned by the AMCON. Skye Bank’s dilemma had been due to insider lending and high non-performing loans that raised questions of its soundness when Tunde Ayeni was chairman of the board and Timothy Oguntayo was managing director. This had led to the removal of the chairman and the directors in July 2016.
Umaru while affirming that Polaris bank is a duly registered and licenced company noted that the bridge bank option had been chosen to ensure that depositors’ funds are well guarded. “The bridge bank option is one of the solutions that is used in many jurisdictions and that is the one we have chosen in Nigeria to protect depositors funds in particular.
“It is also to engender confidence in the banking system and also somehow teach shareholders who are unable to capitalise their bank and who have contributed to making the choice of directors and management who fail to manage in a very appropriate way,” he said.
Assuring that Polaris is a full-fledged bank, Umaru said “AMCON will manage it through the bank’s management that has done very well and has been asked to continue and sell it thereafter.” Although AMCON is yet to issue any statement, sources said with a branch network of over 300, Polaris Bank will be a hotcake for investors who are interested in the Nigerian market.
An analyst who craved anonymity told LEADERSHIP that Polaris Bank may be out of the books of AMCON in a period of one year. There had been concerns raised over the acquisition of Polaris Bank by AMCON which is expected to wind up by 2024.
While many had anticipated a run on the bank, normal transactions had continued as customers of the defunct Skye Bank migrated to the new bank. Signage of some of the flagship branches visited by LEADERSHIP had changed from sky blue to the purple colour adopted by Polaris. Findings however showed that the stationery being used in most of the branches have changed.