A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has declared that it is only God that will decide who will be Rivers State Governor in 2019 and not the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. This is as he denied insinuations that he is being sponsored by Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike to cause crisis within the APC in the state, insisting that he is only fighting for his rights. Abe spoke in Port Harcourt, the state capital, during an interactive session with 26 community-based organisations in Port Harcourt Constituency 2, said he will continue to refer to Amaechi as his leader. He said: “That is why a lot of people have been telling me what my former boss, the former Governor of Rivers State, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, said about me and I said I will not respond. But I will simply go down memory lane to remind Rivers people of few things. “First is that when I was Commissioner for Information with Dr. Odili, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi was aspiring to be Governor of Rivers State and it caused a big problem in the politics of that time between him and Dr. Peter Odili. I was a Commissioner in Odili’s cabinet, but I stood with Amaechi. Practically, at a time, I was the only person in Odili’s government that Amaechi was still talking to. “I remember one day that I had a very serious argument with Dr. Odili over Amaechi. We argued to a point I said to Dr. Odili; Sir, can I tell you something? He said, tell me. I said, whoever God has said will be Governor of Rivers State will be Governor of Rivers State and there is nothing Dr. Peter Odili can do about it. “It is to the internal credit of Dr. Odili that despite that day, he called me when I went to apologise to him but he told me not to apologise. He said, Magnus, what you have said is truth. He allowed me to serve our my term in his cabinet. He never came out publicly to call me a traitor or a betrayer because he respected the fact that I chose to stand by my friend. “I have said the same thing to Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and I want to repeat it here. Whoever God has said will to be Governor of Rivers State will be Governor of Rivers State and there is nothing that Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi can do about it.” Abe, who is also the senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly, said he is only fighting for his rights to become the next governor of the state and not being sponsored. The governorship hopeful said: “I have heard insinuations that I am being sponsored by Nyesom Wike because I decided to fight for my rights, not only as a citizen of my state but as a member of my party, the All Progressives Congress (APC).” 