Ahead of the Osun state governorship election slated for September 22, 2018, the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris has deployed a Deputy Inspector General of Police,  an Assistant Inspector General of Police, eight Commissioners, other police officers and two helicopters. Each of the eight Police Area Commands in Osun state will be manned by a Commissioner of Police. The DIG operations will lead, implement and coordinate the security operations, and also supervise the deployment of all personnel of other security agencies under the Inter Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) for the election throughout the 3,764 Polling units/voting points in the 332 Wards and the 30 LGAs of the State. Force PRO,  Jimoh Moshood, in a statement,  said “to ensure adequate security and safety of life and property before, during and after the election, the IGP has graciously approved the deployment of adequate Police personnel to Osun state for the election. “The personnel that were already trained and oriented on election security and electoral act on the responsibilities and functions expected of them, comprises the Police Mobile Force (PMF) Units, Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), the Special Protection Unit (SPU), the Anti Bomb Squad (EOD), Conventional Policemen, the Armament Unit, personnel of FCIID, IGP Monitoring, IGP IRT teams, the Sniffer dogs section and the Mounted Troop. “Four unarmed policemen and two others from other security agencies will be on duty at each voting point throughout the State. The Police Mobile Force (PMF) headed by the very Senior Officer will provide security at the RAC, Super RAC and Collation centres. “Two Police Patrol Surveillance Helicopters, 30 Armoured Personnel Carriers, Ten Armoured Personnel Vehicles and 300 Police patrol vehicles are already deployed to cover the entire state including difficult terrains. Other security and safety agencies who are members of Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) in the State have also been posted to complement the Nigeria Police Force during the election.” The statement added that special security identification tags will be worn by all security personnel deployed for the election, as no personnel of any security agency will be allowed to move to any other location other than where they are deployed throughout the election period. Security personnel attached to public office holders and politicians, and other VIPs will not be allowed to follow their principals to the polling units or collation centres throughout the election. Meanwhile,  the IGP will today, attend a stakeholders and peace accord meeting with INEC chairman and the 48 political parties participating in the election and their flag bearers, INEC officials, election observers and other accredited stakeholders in Osogbo, Osun State. Also, the Nigeria Police Force warned that it will not tolerate, condone, or allow vote buying and selling to take place anywhere in Osun State before and during the election.