A governorship contender for Adamawa State, under the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed given reason as to why the party pegged the its presidential and gubernatorial forms ahead of its primaries. Dr. Haliru who is set to challenge incumbent governor, Jibrilla Bindow for the seat opined that the logistics and and other contingencies that will be necessary to prosecute the 2019 general election may have caused the party leadership to peg it at the pricey amount. He stated this in Abuja while receiving the APC Expression of Interest and Nomination forms obtained for him by his friends and associates, adding that desire to let the people have a feel of what dividends of democracy mean informed his decision to join the race stressing that with this gesture, victory was in sight. The politician who is the chairman of Hinterland Group of Companies noted that he would not like other politicians made superfluous promises but will change the fortunes of Adamawa when elected. Ahmed however maintained that as loyal party member, he was not opposed to the cost of expression of interest and nomination forms as that was in the best interest of party. He said “That is a decision of the National Executive Committee, NEC, of the party. But, as a loyal party member, I have no reason to challenge their wisdom for doing that because I know there are challenges involved in the conduct of an election and the logistics and other things to be taken care of that are happening within the state. There is also a huge sum involved in these exercise that we are about going into”. Decrying the current state of things in Adamawa, Ahmed stated that, “it is no longer news that the situation in my state informed the decision. My mission is to create a new lease of life for my people to feel what it means to actually have a feeling of the dividends of democracy”. The Adamawa state governorship hopeful expressed deep appreciation to his friends for purchasing the forms for him as his budget was over stretched by the cost of the forms approved by the party leadership. ” I wish to most sincerely express my gratitude to my friends who gave me this very big surprise this evening. I told a friend of mine fortnight ago that Adams has thrown a shocker to me by exceeding my budget for the purchase of the form. I lost half of my size immediately. I didn’t know that my friends are actually working on this. At about ‪11am today‬, one of them called me that they are actually having an emergency meeting that they put together this amount of money and they are proceeding to pick a nomination form for me. “It is quite touching and from the bottom of my heart and most sincerely I like to thank each and every one of them. About 22 of them got together to have this thing done. I express my gratitude to them. “Well, I don’t want to blow my trumpet but at my age having interacted with people, having lived my life it is for the public to judge well. it is very clear. “There is a distinction in whatever that we do. In life, there are things to happen in one’s life say. There are some vacuums or things that are lacking in the state which I feel that a lot can be done if we have a change in leadership in the state with the current situation. “I want to assure them that what they saw in me, I will not let them down. I am committed and they know me and the love, I have for my people and by the special grace of God, we are going to emerge victorious”, he stated. Speaking on the adoption of indirect primaries by Adamawa state chapter of APC as against direct mode stipulated by the National Working Committee, Ahmed said, he was ready to participate in any mode used. “I am aware of it but I think this is for the leadership and the national working committee of the party to look at both sides that presentation were made as to which of the primaries to adopt in the state. I as an aspirant, whichever way it goes, I am ready”, the governorship aspirant stressed. Earlier, while presenting the forms to Ahmed, Mohammed Yaro said the gesture was because of the competence, capacity, sagacity and popularity of the aspirant who will win the race for the transformation of Adamawa state. “We have decided to buy a gubernatorial form and inshallah this is a winning form for Adamawa state. We decided to get this form for Dr. Ahmed because we know he is a capable person, competent, tested, trusted and a good leader. “Your Excellency this your expression of interest is a sign of good things to come. This is a winning form for the gubernatorial election”, Yaro stated. Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed, a 45 years old with Doctorate Degree has served as chairman and member of many political conventions, and he was a member of the APC Presidential Campaign Council in 2015.