Virtually every part of Kebbi State capital, Birnin Kebbi were locked up by security operatives on Saturday, while few roads allowed access were marked by gridlocked following the visit of the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to attend the wedding ceremony of the minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN)’s daughter. Several Birnin Kebbi residents and guests thronged the palace of the Emir of Gwandu, Alhaji Ilyasu Muhammadu Bashar, venue of the wedding and lined up on the roads leading to the palace. Malami gave out his daughter Zakiyya Abubakar Malami, in marriage to Saifullahi Aminu Haruna Maigishiri. The wedding took place after the Vice President, Malami, governors of Kebbi, Katsina, Kaduna, Zamfara, Jigawa, Atiku Bagudu, Bello Masari, Nasir El-Rufai, Abdulazeez Abubakar Yari respectively arrived the Palace of the Emir of Gwandu, Alhaji Ilyasu Muhammadu Bashar. While Governor Masari represented the parent of Zakiyya Abubakar Malami, Governor Yari offered the bride price of N100,000 on behalf of the parent of Saifullahi Maigishiri. This is as a mild drama was staged when two Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirants, ex-Governor Sule Lamido and serving governor of Sokoto State, Waziri Tambuwal alighted together from Sokoto State Governor’s car to attend Malami’s daughter’s wedding. Former governor of Sokoto State, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko and current Sokoto State deputy governor, Ahmed Aliyu also arrived together at the venue of the marriage. Also in attendance was the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, Comptroller-General of Immigration, Muhammad Babandede, Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting PLC, Abbas Masaanawa and Special Adviser to the President on Amnesty Programme, Professor Charles Dokubo. In addition, Ministers of Defence, Transport, Sport, Education and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Mohammed Dan-Ali, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, Solomon Dalong, Mallam Adamu Adamu and Ibe Kachukwu respectively were present. Former governor of Kebbi State, Senator Adamu Aliero, Director of Public Prosecution, Mohammed Umar, Dahiru Manga, captains of industries, Justices of the Court of Appeal and the high courts attend the big occasion.