A pathologist with the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Dr Sunday Soyele on Tuesday told the state high court in Ikeja that Ronke Shonde, the banker allegedly murdered by her dockworker husband, Lekan Shonde suffered severe brain injuries which led to her death. Soyele, who conducted a post-mortem examination on the deceased also told the trial judge, Justice Josephine Oyefeso, she died from respiratory failure, caused by cerebral edema (swollen brain), caused by a blunt force trauma to the brain. While being led in evidence by the prosecutor, Yemi Oshoala, the pathologist also revealed that it was discovered during the autopsy that the deceased’s brain was heavy, swollen and filled with water and it was highly unlikely that the deceased inflicted the injuries on herself because of the multiplicity of injuries. He said, “A bruise was found on her left jaw. During autopsy, it was also discovered that the deceased had black eyes (pupils) a tell-tale sign of brain injury. “We opened up the body and brought out all the organs. We also opened up the skull to bring out the brain. Blood collection was discovered in the skull, just beneath the skin. “The deceased’s uterus was also brought out and there was no sign of conception. We took samples from the brain in order to determine the cause of death which primarily was respiratory failure caused by trauma to the brain,” he stated. Soyele, who revealed that he and his team had conducted over 1,000 autopsies, said that Ronke’s autopsy revealed that she had suffered past injuries to her brain. “We took samples from the brain and discovered old haemorrhage (bleeding) in the brain, which suggest past trauma.” he added. Shonde, who was arraigned on October 24, 2017 on a charge of murder, had pleaded not guilty to the charge. The prosecution had alleged that Shonde committed the offence at 8.30 p.m. on May 5, 2016 at his residence at No. 3, Tiemo Close, Egbeda, near Lagos. According to court documents, Shonde was involved in an altercation with his wife, which led to her death. After Ronke’s death, the dockworker allegedly locked up the home and fled, leaving his spouse’s corpse in the living room. The alleged crime scene was discovered by neighbours, who heard the cries of their two young children, struggling to “wake up” the lifeless body of their mother. Shonde was said to have surrendered to the authorities five days later, after an extensive manhunt. Justice Oyefeso adjourned the case till October 24 for continuation of trial.   