The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) has accused the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of turning the country’s presidency into a commodity for sale to the highest bidder. The group was reacting to media report that some members of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) flouted a directive from its leadership that they should not campaign for presidential aspirants ahead of the October 6 presidential primaries of the party. In a statement issued in Abuja yesterday by its Director of Communications and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the BCO urged Nigerians to crosscheck properly whether the major opposition party in the country has their interest at heart by the way its senior members going about their bid for a presidential candidate. Ibrahim said, “It has become imperative to alert Nigerians that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) they rejected in 2015 on account of debauchery, pervasive corruption and collapsing and decaying infrastructure are out to desecrate the coveted seat of President of this nation. “The Buhari Campaign Organization (BCO) wishes to inform Nigerians that the PDP is not interested in choosing a person of sound mind and clean past from its motley of contestants but more concerned on who donate what to the party. The party has offered its presidential ticket for sale, in short for the highest bidders amongst its presidential aspirants”. The BCO described the PDP as a nest of moneybags who are out to mortgage the country’s future by fielding a candidate with the financial muscle to buy the presidential ticket irrespective of his character or moral standing. Ibrahim noted: “These money bags in the PDP making those donations are the same people that have created ‘crowd of beggars’, turned their states to mere ‘ATM point’, and ready to sell the country at pittance for the sake of power. “They have even assured their party leadership that they have made enough arrangement to help the party back to power in 2019. The contract is, in other words, for hacking into INEC electoral systems to swing election results into their favour”. The political group however noted that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration will never allow the invidious plans against the nation’s electoral system to manifest, “notwithstanding the orchestrated plans to frustrate INEC by refusing to convene National Assembly to approve budget estimates for the commission to function. “The Federal Government is quite aware of the subversive users of computers and computer network ostensibly to promote their political agenda. The Federal Government is equally aware that part of the refusal to approve funds for INEC was just to prevent the commission from installing critical infrastructure to tackle their planned hacking of electoral system next year. They won’t succeed, irrespective of their efforts, the BCO can assure”, Ibrahim added.