. . . ‘Ambode Still In Governorship Race’ Residents of Lagos State yesterday took to streets to protest against the purported choice of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu over the incumbent Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode by party leaders as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate weeks before the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries in the state. The protesters who were seen at Ikeja Local Government canvassed automatic ticket for Ambode and frowned at the choice of Babajide Sanwo-Olu saying that the good work of Akinwunmi Ambode must continue in Lagos State. Speaking to press one of the protesters Mr Charles Akube said the good works of Ambode as seen all over the state is enough to afford him a second chance. Akugbe accused the national leader of the party Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of trying drop the governor, saying , “Tinubu should not use politics to spoil the development that is currently going on in Lagos. Ambode has done enough to afford a second term, looking at all the construction work going on all over Lagos State, we all know that this man deserves a second chance to continue the good work.” Recently Tinubu-led Mandate Movement in the Lagos APC had backed Babajide Sanwo-Olu , who obtained his form last Tuesday . The chairmen of the 57 councils had also declared support for Sanwo-Olu. Sanwo-Olu , a former commissioner in the state on Sunday formally declared his intention to vie for the Lagos State governorship ticket of the APC, promising to restore the glory of the state. Notable APC leaders in the state, who were either allies of Tinubu or his followers, were at the declaration. It was also learnt that the Mandate group had started wooing another aspirant on the APC platform, Dr Obafemi Hamzat. It was gathered that Tinubu’s men wanted Hamzat, who is from the Lagos East like Ambode, to become the Deputy Governor with a promise that he would supervise a ministry and also nominate two commissioners into the cabinet. Meanwhile, Governor  Ambode’s Chief press secretary, Habib Haruna, has refuted online media reports that  Governor Ambode has withdrawn from the race and endorsed Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Haruna in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP said “there is no iota of truth in the said statement”. Ambode is still very much in the 2019 governorship race contrary to reports on social media that he has withdrawn to pave way for the emergence of Babajide Sanwo-Olu.’’ He said there was need to put the records straight to deflate reports on social media that the governor has stepped down from the 2019 gubernatorial race, saying the news was simply fake. The top government source said the report was the handiwork of persons bent on heating up the polity in the State and creating unnecessary confusion and tension within the All Progressives Congress (APC). The report, which the authors had claimed was signed by the Governor, suggested that he(Ambode) after due considerations and consultations, had decided to suspend his campaign for second term and also endorsed another aspirant, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to emerge as the candidate of the party. A source closed to the seat of power confirmed that the report was nothing but a hoax and said “it is not true, it is baseless, it is unfounded and the general public should disregard it. “I mean, how can Ambode withdraw from a race that he is very much into and he is consulting widely? This defiles logic and it is a tragic reflection of what social media has turned journalism into where any Tom, Dick, and Harry can just wake up in the corners of his room in Iyana Ipaja, Amukoko, Ikorodu, Oshodi or anywhere and concoct lies and present same to the world as the truth.” According to our source, there was a need for leading lights in the journalism world to rise up to save the profession from charlatans. “There is nothing like that and please tell the world that they should disregard it,” the source stated.