The immediate past National Youth leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Ibrahim Jalo Dasuki has attributed non-engagement of teeming youth population in North in business activities to the incessant insecurity challenges confronting the North East region of the country. Dasuki, who stated this at the National Secretariat of the party while addressing newsmen after he obtained his nomination form and expression of interest to contest governorship seat of Gombe State also disclosed why high maternal mortality rate is in geometric rate in his State. “I want to equally say that we have to farm round the year not the season, because if you farm for four months and wait for eight months doing nothing, of course, you will be poor. These are the things bringing insecurity particularly in my zone (North East) because many people are not engaged in economic activities or businesses. So, we have to do something so as to ensure our people are better in terms of generating income,” he said. Insecurity, which has been linked to the activities of Boko Haram terrorists in the North East, is so prevalent in States like Borno, Yobe, Adamawa and Gombe. Recently, Boko Haram terrorists staged a fresh attack on a military base in Baga in the Kukawa Local Government Area of Borno State, a day after they invaded Gudumbali area in the Guzamala Local Government Area and sacked the residents. The Nigerian Army, who confirmed the terror attack on Gudumbali said its combined troops of 82 Division Task Force Brigade and 158 Task Force Battalion repelled the attack and were restoring normalcy in the area. However, the governorship aspirant stressed that the insecurity challenges in the zone can be curbed if teeming youths are properly engaged, adding that there are many potentials in youths if it can be brought out through sound education policy and programmes. When asked why he has chosen not to decry the present governor of Gombe State, Ibrahim Dankwambo about his style of governance in the State, Dasuki said it is not in his nature to be criticizing people, noting he will definitely change his attitude on that. He said, “Actually it depends on someone’s nature and upbringing. You know they say empty vessels make the loudest noise. I want to say, on that, people will begin to see the difference.”