Nigeria’s preparedness to face food supply emergencies is under threat following the shocking revelation of empty grain reserves scattered around the country. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the strategic food reserves were designed to accommodate millions of metric tonnes of grains but recent findings by our correspondents have shown that several of the strategic grains reserve in some states of the federation are mere building structures in the midst of bushes. The National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA), a parastatal under the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development located in Sheda-Abuja, Kwali area council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), along the Lokoja-Abuja expressway, hosts one of the reserve facilities in the nation’s capital. It was learnt that the construction of the reserve was completed in 2013 and it has the capacity to accommodate about 100,000 metric tonnes of grains. Presently, there are about 20 silos in the complex, with each of the silos having the capacity of accommodating about 164 metric tonnes of grains. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered, however, that since the completion of this project about five years ago, not a single grain has been stored in the facility. In effect, the multi-million naira storage facility has been allowed to waste away. Although the facilities at the complex, such as the silos, buildings, network of roads, fence and flowers are wearing new looks, and are being maintained, the area lacks activities. When our reporter visited the facility recently, many of the staff members were not on duty. The area was like a ghost town, with no tangible activity in the area. Even the few ones present were not ready to speak on the facility. However, one of the workers offered to speak under the cloak of anonymity. He revealed that the facility lacks constant power supply and that its standby generator has for long been in a state of disrepair. “Since 2013 when this project was completed, we have not seen a single grain brought in here for storage. The only time we saw some bags of grains was during the completion of the project when it was being test- run, and shortly after testing the grains they were removed from the facility and taken away,” he said. Director-general‎ Food and Strategic Reserve Department, Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Haruna Sule Abutu, however revealed that the federal government had a total of 33 silo complexes across the nation and currently their stocks level is less than 20 per cent. He noted that to stock all the silos to full capacity, they ministry need not less than N93 billion annually, which is above its budget allocation. He‎ added that in view to ensuring maximum utilisation of the facilities, government was considering giving out some of the facilities for concession to the private sector. “The concession of the surplus facilities will enhance the agricultural development in the country, provide more jobs opportunities and income to the government,” Haruna said. Meanwhile, in Kaduna, officials have decried the non completion of some Strategic Grains Reserve Silo projects across the country for which billions of naira were budgeted. It was observed during a visit that the national grain reserve silos located in some parts of Kaduna State looked shabby and moribund. The facilities are meant for the storage of grains such as rice, beans, maize, soya beans, millet and wheat during the periods of surplus harvests and to preserve excess grains in anticipation of drought, bad harvest and other unforeseen disasters. Some officials, who refused to make formal comment, claimed that grains were stored in the silos. They, however, referred our reporter to Federal Ministry of Agriculture for official response. One of the officials who simply identified himself as Ishaya expressed reservation at the condition of the existing silos, saying the country may not be ready for any emergency food crisis. “This silos you see, I doubt if it has capacity can tackle any emergency now. There are grains inside but not much. The maintenance of the silos is not too encouraging as, you know, the maintenance culture in this country is poor. We call on the government to take proper care of the available silos and stock them well,” he said. Sokoto 25,000mt Capacity Silo Empty The 25,000 metric tonnes agricultural storage Silo facility situated along Kasarawa areas of Sokoto metropolis has remained empty for over a year now, investigation by LEADERSHIP Sunday confirmed. The silo complex, which was said to be in good condition as at the time LEADERSHIP Sunday visited, however, has had no electricity and water supply for a while. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday on behalf of the Silo manager, Mr Francis Iduh, the assistant silo manager, Umar Abdullahi Tambuwal said they received about 10,000 metric tonnes of Paddy rice in 2013. He, however, said that since they finished disposing of them by 2016, the silo has remained empty. Despite praising the physical condition of the Silo complex, LEADERSHIP Sunday, however discovered that they have been operating on power generation set for a long time. Expressing his fears over the federal government’s plan to give out nearly 20 of the nation’s Silos on concession arrangement, a concerned citizen, Alhaji Mukthar Kasarawa, said that would certainly be one of the worst mistakes the government would make. He said the plan would simply favour a few shylocks just like it was done in the case of electricity privatisation. Katsina govt takes over FG’s grain reserve The federal government has grain reserves in Katsina metropolis and Dutsinma in Katsina State. One of the grain silos in Katsina with a capacity of 5,000 metric tonnes was renovated at a total cost of N51 million and stocked with over 7,000 metric tonnes of grains by the state government about 10 years ago. The gesture was in line with national agricultural policy which stipulated that all state governments should either purchase two per cent of their total production or purchase 10,000 metric tonnes of grains. It is doubtful if the state had another buffer stock after that as there is no sign that it attached priority to maintaining the grain reserves. Efforts to reach the federal controller of agriculture in the state were not successful at the time of filing this report.  Akwa Ibom Grain Reserves Under Construction In the case of Akwa Ibom State, the Nigerian Grains Reserve silos in Akwa Ibom, located at Okobo in Ibiono Ibom local government area of the state, is currently under construction and is billed to be commissioned soon. When completed, according to a security personnel who spoke to our correspondent, the facility will accommodate over 25,000 metric tonnes of grains. The project, he said, was started in 2015 and consists of office complex, the six silos, generator house and security post. FG concludes plans to privatise Benue Fruits and Strategic Grains Reserve The Silos manager of fruits and Strategic Grains Reserve, Makurdi, Benue State, Paul Manguts has disclosed that the grains reserve in the state has the capacity of 25,000 metric tonnes. According to him, the essence of the silos was to reserve grains to take care of prevailing challenges like flood victims, disease outbreak and also the prevailing challenge of market pricing, famine and disaster victims to tackle economic hardship. Manguts also explained that the silos are now empty but in good condition to preserve grains. “Even though the grain reserves are in good condition, for now, they are empty, because the federal government has completed arrangements to privatise the reserves for maximum and efficient management,” he said. He disclosed that the last release of grains was to victims of the North East insurgency in 2017, adding that the mostly stored grains in the reserve include rice, sorghum, soy beans, garri and maize. Condition Of Grains Reserve In Jigawa, Fairly Good The federal government silo complex in Jigawa State is located at Jahun local government area of the state with total storage capacity of 25,000 metric tonnes of grains. The storage facilities are in good condition and functional. Earlier this month, about 200 metric tonnes of grains were released from the centre for onward distribution to various Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. Drop In Total Coarse Grains In Nigeria – FAO Report A quarterly report on crop prospects and food situation of the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) reveals that there has been a drop in the total coarse grains produced in Nigeria. Nigeria, which produced 19.1 million tonnes of coarse grains in 2015, dropped to 18.9 million tonnes in 2016. The production slightly picked up to 19 million tonnes in 2017. However, for rice production, Nigeria witnessed a consistent rise from 4.8 million tonnes in 2015, to 5 million tonnes in 2016 and consequently 5.4 million tonnes in 2017. According to the report, the country’s overall cereals production (including wheat, rice and coarse grains) which was 23.9 million tonnes each for both 2015 and 2016 increased considerably to 24.4 million tonnes in 2017. In another vein, the report showed that Nigeria’s total cereals stock based on aggregate of carryovers at the end of national crop years has been fluctuating from 2013 to 2018. Based on official and non-official estimates of the FAO, Nigeria’s cereal stock in 2013 was 2.8 million tonnes, which nosedived to 1.3 million tonnes in 2014. For the years 2015 and 2016, the country’s cereal stock increased to 2.9 million tonnes each while the stock slightly decreased to 2.7 million tonnes in 2017, going further down to 2.1 million tonnes in 2018. In the same report Nigeria, which was categorised under the low income food deficit countries, had commercial purchases (and/or imports) of cereals of 7,250,000 tonnes between January and December 2016 marketing year, while the country’s estimated total import requirement for 2017 was 7,360,000 tonnes. There was no data available for Nigeria on the estimated cereal import requirements for 2017/2018 marketing year. Reacting to this development, an agric expert, Dr Ibrahim Dikko, confirmed that farmers generally tended to migrate to the production of crops that bring higher income from sales, which explains why there was a decline in production of some crops. On mitigating food crises if it arises, Dr Dikko told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the federal government did not have enough food in grains reserve to feed Nigerians. He added that most of the food at grains reserve facilities belong to individuals who are into farming business. On Nigeria falling under the food deficit countries classification, he asserted that Nigeria was a food deficit country because there is higher importation of food than export. He stated that although Nigeria was gradually growing its food production, in addition to efforts by the present administration to boost especially rice production, the shift in lifestyle and nutritional pattern among Nigerians and the deficit between consumption and supply means Nigeria’s food production is still lagging behind. He noted that many industries still import the raw materials they need to carry out production activities, citing example with the confectionary industry which, he said, majorly imported wheat they use for production. He advised that the only way Nigeria could get out of the situation was to become a net exporter of food by developing power and infrastructure. This way, he said, the country can adequately compete at international markets and generate the foreign exchange necessary for growth and development of its agricultural sector and the country in general. 