Barely few days after the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, declared his intention to contest for President in the 2019 General Elections, Former Deputy National Publicity of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, his hinted of a grand plan to frustrate Senator Saraki. He also alleged of a planned arraignment of the Senate President on trumped-up charges as part of a renewed onslaught by the opposition against Saraki. Frank in a statement in Abuja said the aim of the current administration and the APC was to embarrass Senator Saraki and frustrate his chances of being nominated by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to run against Buhari during the party’s upcoming presidential primary election. Frank said: “Events of the last three years has shown that the raison d’être for President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration ferocious attacks against Saraki is based on their phobia that the President of the Senate may contest for President and defeat the APC Candidate in 2019. “Now that their worst fears have been confirmed by the formal declaration of Saraki to contest the 2019 presidential election last week, they are once again frantically foraging for criminal charges to hang on his neck. “I have it on good authority that the fresh plot to arraign Saraki this week is the first out of the series of strategies being perfected this administration at their ongoing ‘business trip’ in China.’ “Recall that in a statement on Friday, I had alerted the nation and the international community that Buhari’s APC Governors, Senators and heads of security agencies studded entourage is not in China to boost trade between both countries but to plot the removal of Saraki and how to rig the 2019 elections in favour of the APC. He added: “Recall that I have continued to cry out against the unmitigated intimidation, harassment, persecution, intolerance, vilification, arrests and kangaroo trial being unleashed against those opposed to Buhari’s re-election bid – to the exclusion of his key allies with corruption allegations against them. The former APC chieftain however called on Nigerians and members of the international community not to be deceived by the fresh charges being concocted against Saraki. He insisted that the bogus charges being drafted by the assigned security agencies are simply to frustrate Saraki’s presidential ambition the same way they have tried unsuccessfully in the last three years to emasculate his leadership of the Senate and to remove him from office as President of the Senate. “It is a proven axiom that no democracy can survive without a vibrant and virile opposition, therefore any attempt to gag opposition political parties in the country and decimate their presidential aspirants for the 2019 elections amounts to another coup against democracy and I call on Nigerians and friends of Nigeria to remain vigilant and continue to speak-up to safeguard the nation’s hard earned democracy. “Now that Saraki has thrown his hat into the ring for the presidential election, the party in connivance with the presidency is out to sully his name and stop him from participating in the up coming election.