Former governor of Kano State, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, has finally defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) together with 12 gubernatorial aspirants and all the state and federal legislators contesting under PDP and 43 local government chairmanship contestants.Speaking during his formal declaration into the APC yesterday, at his country home at Mundubawa Avenue, he said the decision was reached after a wider consultation with his supporters across all the 44 local governments of the state. “We have decided to leave the PDP after studying the fallacies involved in our relationship with the party leaders headed by Uche Secondus. We have resolved that we will not find justice as long as he remains the PDP head because of his open love for Kwankwassiyya, with whom he conspired to do injustice to us despite our efforts to resolve things amicably.” Shekarau mentioned two Nigerian leaders he worked with and shared different religious faith with that they never, in any way, humiliated or molested him using their positions when they held sway as leaders in this country. He listed the leaders as Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Chief Goodluck Ebele Jonathan as men of integrity and said they both had enormous respect for him throughout his stewardship as governor and minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “It is my belief that if people like Obasanjo and Jonathan, with whom we shared divergent views religiously, would do justice to me and my people, how much more Chief Uche Secondus, the current PDP National Chairman, who has deliberately conspired with Dr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso to chase us out of the PDP based on his primordial sentiments.” Shekarau, who defected alongside 12 gubernatorial aspirants, who were contesting in the PDP, 774 ward PDP chairmen and 43 PDP local government chairmen, who are also contestants, into the APC’ s fold, said all these were as a result of the laxity of Uche Secondus, whom he accused of unilaterally dissolving the Kano Exco of the PDP and appointing a caretaker committee, all of whom consist of the Kwawassiyya loyalists. He accused Dr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, who has just joined the party of playing on the intelligence of all the PDP leaders because of his resolve to take the lion share in the composition of the party structure, leaving himself and Aminu Wali, Bello Hayatu Gwarzo with negligible percentage. He cited Chapter 2 part 1 of section a sub section 17 of the PDP constitution, which said categorically, that anybody that defects from the party, is not, entitled to any position if he returns to the party. But despite that provision, they decided to reconcile with Kwankwaso and give him some slots from the ward up to the state level but all to no avail. He described his joining the APC as a homecoming and a step to join hands with other progressive elements in the APC to move Kano State and Nigeria in general to greater heights. Several other speakers commended the efforts of Shekarau in trying to bring about a peaceful and amicable resolution of all the problems that surrounded the PDP though; he was not honoured by Dr Kwankwaso and Uche Secondus. “We are going to give PDP a good fight, we will join hands to make sure that Ganduje and Buhari have an overwhelming victory at the polls.” Our correspondent reported that the ranting of Sai Buhari and Ganduje, filled the air before and after Shekarau delivered his speech.