President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Yusuf Magaji Bichi (fwc) as new director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS). A statement issued by the senior special assistant on media to the president, Garba Shehu, said the appointment took effect from today, September 14, adding that the appointee is a core Secret Service operative. According to the statement, Bichi attended Danbatta Secondary School, the Kano State College of Advanced Studies and the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, where he graduated with a degree in Political Science. It explained that the new director-general began his career in the security division of the Cabinet Office in Kano, from where he joined the defunct Nigerian Security Organisation (NSO), the precursor of the present DSS. It added that Bichi had undergone training in intelligence processing analysis, agent handling, recruitment and intelligence processing in the UK, as well as strategic training at the National Defence College. “The new DSS boss comes to the job with skills in intelligence gathering, research analysis, conflict management, general investigation, risk and vulnerability operations, counter intelligence and protective operation and human resources management,” it said. According to the statement, in the course of his career, Bichi has worked as the state director of State Security in Jigawa, Niger, Sokoto and Abia states. Bichi was at various times the director, National Assembly Liaison, (National War College), director at National Headquarters in the Directorate of Security Enforcement, Directorate of Operations, Directorate of Intelligence, Directorate of Inspection and Directorate of Administration and Finance, it said, adding that he also served as Director at State Service Academy. The new spy boss is married and has children. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in his capacity as acting president, sacked former DSS boss, Lawal Daura, following the controversial invasion of the National Assembly by DSS officials last month.