The Road Transport Employers Association Of Nigeria (RTEAN), appointed an acting president in the person of Comrade Osakpamwan Eriyo. A statement signed by the national secretary general of the association, Comrade Yusuf Ibrahim Adeniyi, said the appointment was pertinent because the national president, Musa Shehu Isiwele and the deputy national president (Admin), Musa Mohammed, had been removed from office. The association alleged that their removal was based on alleged fraudulent activities and abuse of office and flagrant violation of the union’s constitution in line with Article 9, Section B, of RTEAN Amended Constitution, 2013. The statement reads in part: “The national president, Isiwele and the deputy national president, admin, RTEAN, Mohammed, have been removed from office and subsequently expelled from the organisation. “In the light of above, to avoid any leadership vacuum, the entire members of our great union have appointed Comrade Osakpamwan Eriyo as acting national president RTEAN.” Responding to the allegation when contacted, the deputy national president Mohammed, stressed that the national secretary general was not in the position to remove anyone from office. Mohammed said, “For the president or the deputy to be removed from office there has to be a declaration of vote of no confidence by members of the association, which has not been done and so no one, not even the national secretary general, has the power to remove anyone from office. “There is no proof based on the allegation they made. If they have any evidence of fraud, then let them produce it.” Earlier the legal adviser to the executive of the organisation, E Oaikihnan and Co, had submitted a petition to the inspector general of police, stating that funds, belonging to the union, were diverted for personal use by both the national president and deputy national president to which the office of the inspector general instructed the commissioner of police, IGP Monitoring Unit, Force Headquarters, to investigate the matter and subsequently present a detailed report.