***Says Meeting Is Illegal The last may not be heard on the contentions over the mode of primaries for the selection of its leaders, as the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday, raised alarm over what it termed an “Illegal meeting” by some members of the party. The APC also said the aim of the gathering which is to fault the resolution of its National Executive Committee (NEC) as regards the mode of the Party’s primary elections. In a statement as signed by the Ag. national publicity secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, the party said the identities of the arrowheads have been identified and will be dealt with according to party’s laws. The statement reads: “The attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been drawn to an illegal meeting scheduled to hold on Sunday at Transcorp Hilton hotel in Abuja by some members of our Party organs, with a view to fault the decisions made by the NWC followed by the National Executive Committee (NEC) as regards the mode of the Party’s primary elections. “We want to state clearly that the meeting which has been fixed for 2pm is illegal and an attempt to puncture the sincere efforts being made by the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC to reposition our Party ahead the 2019 General Elections and to ensure unity, equity and justice in the Party. “The outcome of such meeting which is already known will be a nullity and we admonish our members to disregard such meetings in the interest of the Party. It is illegal to call such meetings outside the purview of the constituted authority. “The identities of those plotting such meetings have been identified and unless they desist from such they will be dealt with in line with the Party’s Constitution at the appropriate time. “The NWC will resist any attempt to disrupt the current peace and harmony prevailing in our great Party after the exit of some members of our Party. “We urge any member who is not satisfied with the decisions of the Party to utillize channels provided by the Party’s constitution to air their views. “We remain focused in delivering good governance to Nigerians and above all ensuring the victory for our Party come 2019 and we will not be intimidated by the antics of a few in ensuring success for our Party.”