 The governorship election in Osun State held Saturday and declared inconclusive Sunday by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC) is no doubt an eye opener to APC gladiators all over the country including Nasarawa State. The performance of PDP in the governorship election in Osun State did not take all keen observers of political events in Nigeria by surprise considering the inability of the governor, Rauf Aregbesola to manage the fallout of the APC governorship primary. As a leader of the APC, Rauf Aregbesola is responsible for this shameful APC outing in Osun State, for lack of capacity in deploying diplomacy and tact in handling uproar in the party after the primary. Governor Aregbesola did not only throw caution to the wind, but  exhibited outright contempt to all those who contested along with his preferred candidate; an action which made virtually all of them to abandon him and the APC for other political parties. In Nasarawa State however, there is a growing fear that what happened in Osun State may likely happens if care is not adequately taken, especially with the wrangle now in APC in the state and the brawl between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu. At this auspicious time, these two political gladiators are supposed to be thinking of how to manage a fallout that may likely arise from the next week primaries, unfortunately they are however engaged in a brawl. Indeed, the relationship between Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu supposed not to be in soar mood by whatever circumstance given the fact that the duo have come a long way. Senator Abdullahi Adamu first served as Plateau State Secretary, later Chairman of the NPN after expiration of the tenure of the late Alhaji Sale Hassan, while Governor Al-Makura then got elected as the State Youth leader. They both served on the State Executive Council and National Executive Council  of the NPN. The relationship between the duo blossomed and further consolidated as time progressed in their respective life. It is on record that both Govornor Al-Makura and Senator Adamu have never share contrary political viewpoints. Even after the demise of the Second Republic and after Governor Al-Makura quit partisan politics to concentrate on his personal business, the relationship between them remained cordial. Even though, Governor Al-Makura had his mind and body off partisan politics immediately after the collapse of the Second Republic, his soul was still in the game as he never showed any tendency that is apolitical. He is always on the same page with Senator Abdullahi Adamu when it comes to playing politics. Governor Al-Makura never belonged to a political party or shared any political affiliation different from that of Senator Abdullahi Adamu. When Senator Adamu was in the National Republican Convention (NRC) during the ill-fated Third Republic of General Ibrahim Babangida, Governor Al-Makura’s soul was also in the NRC. Equally during the transition programme of late Genaral Sani Abacha, Senator Abdullahi Adamu was in UNCP, Governor Al-Makura had his soul also in UNCP. When General Abdulsalami Abubakar rolled out his transition programme and with the emergence of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Abdullahi Adamu happened to be in the PDP and Governor Al-makura also sided with the PDP. The level of respect and cordiality that existed between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu can only be imagined than described considering how they relate with each other right from their NPN days and now APC. However even in 2015 when Governor Al-Makura was seeking for re-election, it was he (Senator Adamu) who Al-Makura appointed to serve as chairman of Al-Makura campaign committee and he gave all his best to ensure Al-Makura’s victory. I have taken time to examine the relationship between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Adamu just to show how awesome this relationship was until last two weeks when the existing mutuality crashed culminating to unwholesome vituperations in social media and in mainstream media between their supporters and aficionado. Indeed, the whole bubble burst with the setting up of a panel by Governor Al-Makura headed by Nasarawa State Commissioner for Finance to investigate Senator Abdullahi Adamu’s administration between 1999 to 2007 with specific reference to the failure of Farin Ruwa Independent Hydropower plant project, Zimbabwean farmers project as well as concessioning agreements of state owned hotels and other related facilities. Since the state government announced the constitution of the panel, the media has been awash with accusation and counter accusation from supporters of both heavy weights. Of course, the issues that brought about this seeming deep resentment between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu are issues that can be settled behind closed door, without allowing anybody know about it. But like I pointed out in an earlier piece, both Governor Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu allowed themselves to be manipulated by some agents of disunity who drive mundane benefits and sometimes passion in creating crisis and confusion in the polity, believing that it is only through creating such a situation that their relevance and dominance can be safeguarded. Further to this, I also highlighted that “The brawl between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu are nothing but an offshoot of envy, gossiping and backbiting which has indeed, become our new trade in Nasarawa State” The escalation of tension between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Abdullahi Adamu especially with the setting up of a panel to investigate Senator Adamu and his (Senator Adamu) quick response to the setting up of the panel were all pointers to intensification of this rivalry which at best can said to be of more harm than good to the wellbeing of the APC in the state. Be that as it may, the concern of the people here is unity of the APC in Nasarawa State most especially against the background of the outcome of Osun governorship election.  What the people fear is fragmentation of the APC in the state.  If this conflict between the two gladiators is allowed to persist, then the case of Osun would be a child’s play because of the kind of ethnic and religious diversity and the intrigues we have in Nasarawa State. The ruling APC and indeed, Nasarawa State, cannot afford a scuffle between Governor Al-Makura and Senator Adamu because a fight between them reminds one of the  time tested saying that ‘when two elephants fight, the grass suffers’. APC national headquarters and President Muhammadu Buhari must  intervene to save the APC in Nasarawa State. A word is enough for the wise. –Bala writes from Lafia.