Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has met with a delegation from Elion Resources Group (ELION), a leading Chinese green industry enterprise, led by its Chairman Wang Wenbiao, in Beijing, China. The meeting represents part of the practical efforts of ELION, a global leader in desertification control, to  show its commitment to the key initiatives proposed by President Xi, including the Green Development Initiative. President Buhari is in the Chinese capital attending the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). Appreciating the significant achievements of ELION in restoring the Kubuqi Desert in northern China’s Inner Mongolia, President Buhari invited ELION to seek cooperation opportunities in Nigeria in the area of desertification control and development of new energy resources. At the opening ceremony of this year’s FOCAC summit on September 3, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged that “to build an even closer China-Africa community with a shared future in the new era, China will, on the basis of the ten cooperation plans already adopted, launch eight major initiatives in close collaboration with African countries in the next three years and beyond.” One of the major initiatives focused on green development and China has decided to “expand exchanges and cooperation with Africa on climate change, ocean, desertification prevention and control, and wildlife protection.” President Buhari said Nigeria, located in Africa, one of the most desertification plagued areas in the world, has taken desertification control as part of its strategic priority and was willing to learn from the Kubuqi Model and experience in desertification control. The President also expressed optimism about cooperation with ELION in sand combating techniques and development of new energy business in desert. Wenbiao responded that under the guidance of China’s “Belt and Road” Initiative, ELION is poised to conduct researches on desertification control in Nigeria, a country with abundant resources. He added that it would promote the progress of desertification control in West Africa, and even the whole African continent with the Kubuqi Model. ELION had earlier held talks with Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha during which both parties reached an initial agreement on  cooperation in desertification control and other areas.