As the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) holds elections to pick ad-hoc delegates at the ward level across the country today, aspirants seeking elective positions under the party ahead of the 2019 general election have warned against imposition of candidates. The three-man ad-hoc delegates will, in turn, decide the fate of aspirants of the party seeking elective positions at the state level, including state Houses of Assembly, House of Representatives, Senate and governorship. Confirming that the elections will hold as scheduled, the national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbodinyan, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that all the preparations for the exercise have been concluded. The party spokesman who described the process as crucial for the party added that there have been no complaints so far from any part of the country so far. “We have not heard or received any complaints officially and unofficially. Nigerians can see and attest to how peaceful, orderly and transparent our processes have been in the conduct of this exercise. The expectation of the party is for members to go to their respective wards and elect the delegates”, the party said. Among the aspirants who spoke is presidential hopeful of the party, Senator David Mark, who canvassed rancour-free congresses. As party faithful elect delegates for the 2019 polls today, Mark has cautioned against imposition of candidates. He told party members in a statement issued in Abuja to conduct themselves peacefully according to the rules of the game, stressing that the will of the people must be allowed to prevail. He stated: “As we converge to elect delegates to the Congresses beginning from Saturday, we must be guided by democratic tenets and observe the principle of fairness and justice. “We must demonstrate to fellow country men and women that we are truly democratic. I am sure that our members nationwide will showcase our reformed and rebranded Party as the preferred choice for the people.” Senator Mark restated that he joined the presidential race because he believes he can make a positive difference in Nigeria. He said, “Nobody can shy away from the fact that Nigeria is currently faced with intractable security, economic and socio-political challenges that unarguably threatens the corporality of the country. “Rarely has our country been faced with such a state of uncertainty, despair, suspicion and division. Time has come for all men and women who care and have the requisite experiences and courage to stand up, retrieve it from the brink and lead our nation into prosperity.” Senator Mark expressed optimism that his road map to economic recovery and prosperity tagged ‘730 model’ will turn around the economy of the nation within two years of his administration if elected president. He disclosed that he has assembled a team of young Nigerian Professionals to hit the ground running and facilitate the economic recovery. Education, he said, will be given top priority as the bedrock for development, stressing that “we will focus on Education and create a pool of highly trained citizens with excellent IT skills who will be employable as well as create jobs. “We will support Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) as a matter of priority with interest free cooperative loans and appropriate technology, which will be the main driver of the economy with attendant rate of huge employment opportunities.”