President Buhari Muhammadu Buhari has described those who recently defected from the ruling All Progressive congress to the Peoples Democratic Party as weak and selfish. President Buhari stated this in his remarks while accepting the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms to contest the 2019 Presidential election on the platform of the APC donated to him by a group known as Nigerian Consolidation Ambassadors Network (NCAN) at the Presidential Villa ,Abuja. Recall that Senate President, Bukola Saraki and the governors of Sokoto, Benue and Kwara states recently defected from the APC to PDP. President Buhari expressed gratitude for being honoured by the mainly youth groups drawn from different parts of the country said that his vision to rescue the nation began in 2002. He added that the country reached a hopeless state in 2006, hence his decision to contest for the Presidential position in 2007. According to him, his decision was predicated on the state of hopelessness in the country where selfish interest of elected leaders superceded national interest, pointing out that the 2007 election in the country was a colossal disgrace. He stated “I am honoured today to receive youths from all over the country contributing to buy the form for me. The weakest whose sense of expectation do not align with our vision have exited our party.” President Buhari also reteirated that corruption is fighting back saying , “We now have a party of strong and patriotic people who are ready to work for a strong Nigeria.” The President listed his achievements since assumption of office to include completion of rail projects and new ones under construction, government support to farmers, as well as the rehabilittion of fertilizer plants, introduction of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) he said has helped the administration to tackle the menace of stealing in public service as well as provision of jobs and cash for the most vulnerable Nigerians. Earlier in his opening remarks, Deputy Chairman of Board of Trustees (BoT) NCAN, Chuckwuemeka Nwajiuba said the members of the group who facilitated the purchase of the Expression of Interest Form for the President where made up of three million Nigerians after a triple A assessment of the performance of President Buhari. He stated that the group was convinced to purchase the form on the bases of President Buhari’s commitments in the fight against graft, terrorism and the effort to revive the economy.