Following the declaration by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that Saturday’s Osun governorship election was inconclusive after Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP scored 254, 698 votes to beat his All Progressives Congress (APC) rival, Gboyega Oyetola, who polled 254, 345 votes, Mr Adeleke could not be returned because his margin of victory according to INEC was 353 votes, and lower than the number of votes cancelled reported as 3,498. The explanation has not gone down well with PDP faithfuls among whom is Mr Success Ogunkolade, a PDP aspirant for Oriade constituency in Osun State House of Assembly. According to a statement released by his office, Mr Kolade who has been with Senator Adeleke all through the race said the enemies of democracy are bent on drawing the people of Osun state back to the era of sadness and hunger. He called on Osun people to come out enmass to show those who think the peoples vote won’t count that they will continue to speak with their votes until Adeleke is declared winner. “Where there is light, darkness can never prevail. Osun is done with selfish and expired politicians who see themselves as mini god. The good people of Osun state have spoken through the ballot and they will do that again come tomorrow. “It is God’s mandate that Adeleke wins this election and he has already won and nothing can anybody do about it. If they like let them make the election inconclusive 10times, PDP will go back to the polls and God’s grace by our side, Adeleke will be returned victorious. “People should learn to bow out when the ovation is high. It is a shameful that there are always bitter losers in this country. The show of sportsmanship is the best thing that brings peace and harmony. You can’t continue to harm and hurt people and expect them to love you. This is a big lesson after the ruling party couldn’t pay salaries for 2 solid years and expect people to still vote them. Who wants to die? “The standard of education, rural-urban development is in shamble. People want change and the change came on 22nd but the APC want to rewrite what God has already written. “I am using this opportunity to call on all the good people of Osogbo, Orolu and Ile Ice to reject any attempt by anybody to allow this suffering in Osun state to continue. INEC should not allow themselves to be used because the consequences will be great. It is high time we allow development, prosperity and social amenities come to the people who have yearned for it for ages,” he exclaimed.  