Southwest leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), has faulted the final results release to the public on Osun State governorship election conducted on September 22, saying about 4,387 votes had been allegedly removed from the total ballots polled by the party. The South West zonal secretary of the party, Reverend Bunmi Jenyo at  a press conference held at the country home of Senator Ademola Adeleke in Ede, said the alleged discrepancies was brought forth to correct the anomalies. His words: “INEC recorded 14, 499 for the PDP instead of 14, 599, just as the total votes of the PDP was reduced by 1,000 in Ayedaade local government.” Rev.  Jenyo who explained that, the discovery was made thorough investigation, affirmed that the PDP was allegedly short-changed by INEC through the summation of votes in Olorunda and Osogbo local government councils by allotting more votes to the All Progressives Congress (APC) than what the party garnered during the poll. He added that INEC recorded 14, 499 for the PDP instead of 14, 599, just as he said the total votes of the PDP was reduced by 1,000 in Ayedaade local government. According to him, similar scenario played out in Osogbo local government, where the actual votes polled by the APC stood at 21, 479, adding that on contrary INEC recorded 23, 379 votes for the party. The Party however raised fresh alarm on the alleged move to doctor the voter register against the Thursday rerun election in Osun State. He further alleged that concerted efforts are ongoing to disenfranchise voters of PDP affiliations. “Just today, an APC member was busted at Kasorock Hotel opposite Moye oil, Osogbo, one Hon. Tayo,  a councillor at Osogbo ward five was caught working on INEC Voters’ register,  altering figures,  data,  images,  and names. “Vigilant members of the public swooped on the devil element who is working to subvert the will of the people. “We would have thought this was impossible, but we remember very well that this occurred at Egbedore(ward 10, unit 2, 4, 6.8, and 71) and Ifedayo,  where hundreds of voters were disenfranchised. “We call on INEC to immediately restore the sanctity of voters register for Osogbo and Orolu.  We will not accept usage of doctored register for the rerun”, Jenyo asserted. He pointed out several discrepancies in the result figures released by INEC, alleging that the mathematical error in the compilation of the results was deliberate act to favour the APC. “We subsequently call on INEC to immediately restore the correctness of their records. As the records are fraught with multiple errors which question the integrity of the personnel and the outputs.” 