Amalgamation of Marketers, an umbrella body of market unions, clubs and associations in Gombe state, artisans and motorcycle riders association over the weekend called on residents of the state to support a candidate that would bring development, peace and unity to the state after 2019’s general elections. The pressure group said that the state need a vibrant aspirant that would bring peace, development and unity to the state on his assumption of office. Speaking to newsmen shortly after they paid  Habu Muazu, gubernatorial aspirant of the All Progressive Congress (APC) courtesy visit at his resident in Gombe, Yusuf Ibrahim, the State Chairman of Yam sellers association, said that they had decided to support the candidature of Alhaji Habu Muazu popularly known as Yeriman Kashere as a gubernatorial candidate in the state come 2019 because of his character and leadership qualities. He said that they took the decision because they believed Yeriman Kashere had all it takes to bring positive change and peace to the state. Ibrahim said that their choice of Habu was not based on their preferences for any political party. He said that his group and others had benefited from Habu in many ways based on his humanitarian services to the people. He described the aspirant as an upright man who would ensure that the residents and down trodden of the state enjoy dividends of democracy if elected governor in the 2019 general elections. According to him the groups would support Habu in any of the political parties he chooses to realise his political ambition. He said the various groups are willing and have expressed readiness to mobilised their members and resources to support Habu if he eventually get the APC ticket. Also Speaking Alhaji  Modibbo Baba Kumo, appealed to members of the various groups to reach out to the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and delegates with an appeal on them to vote for a credible candidate like Habu during the party primary to enable them win the state. “I know many of you have cordial  relationship and contacts  with the party leadership and delegates, now is the time to reach out to them, tell them to get things right and insists that only the best and committed candidate should be voted for.” He said. He urged the delegates to shun enticements and money bags and vote for Habu Muazu to enable APC win the state in 2019.