The Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has told a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe to stop referring to him (Amaechi) as his leader. This is as Abe has alleged plot by some persons to use rumours of the endorsement of his governorship ambition by President Muhammadu Buhari to blackmail the President. Amaechi, who spoke yesterday at an APC rally in Rumueme Kingdom in Obio/Akpor local government area of Rivers State, alleged that Abe had while speaking at the National secretariat of the party, referred to him as ‘our leader’. The minister said: “I am not Magnus Abe’s leader. Abe has long left me and the political family that is largely responsible for his rise and fame in politics,” Amaechi said in a statement released by his media office over the weekend. “How can I be Abe’s leader when he and the minions sponsored by him (Abe), privately and publicly abuse, insult, cast aspersions on me, my wife and members of my family, daily? Is that how a follower treats his leader? “It’s cheap and indeed shameful political sophistry for Abe to stand in the APC secretariat and deceitfully say I am his Leader, while all he has done both privately and publicly in recent times is to undermine me, the APC and desecrate the APC in Rivers State. As a matter of fact, it is indeed very doubtful if Senator Abe is still in the APC. He mouths APC but his actions belie his words and clearly tell a different story. “A man who wakes up, create an imaginary parallel party executive and went ahead to open an office for the non-existent parallel executive, that has no base and foundation, cannot be said to be committed, in anyway to the party. “As a matter of fact, his actions are obviously targeted at weakening and destroying the party. Such a hypocritical, devious character cannot be my follower. I am not his eader.” Meanwhile, a governorship aspirant on the APC platform in the state, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has described as rumours the stories making the round that President Muhammadu Buhari endorsed his governorship ambition. Abe, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday by his campaign organization, the Freedom House, described the rumoured endorsement as a cheap blackmail against Buhari. The statement, which was signed by the Director-General of Freedom House, Hon. Wogu Boms, reads in part: “The attention of Freedom House, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe’s campaign organization, has been drawn to several rumours and insinuations in recent times to the effect that President Muhammadu Buhari, GCON has endorsed the gubernatorial ambition of Senator Magnus Abe. “These rumours and insinuations which had been making the rounds for some time were given accent following the successful visit of the Ogonis to the President to thank his Excellency for his efforts in the Ogoni cleanup. “We would have continued to ignore the rumours, which were actually intended to blackmail the President, until it became clear that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, CON, was behind it as he made similar insinuations to his supporters in Eleme LGA during a rally on Saturday 15th September, 2018. In another development, a chieftain of the APC, Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has called on Abe to apologise to President Muhammadu Buhari for the embarrassment his recent actions have allegedly caused the President. Eze, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday said: “Senator Magnus Abe have for some time now used the names of the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Aisha Buhari,the Nigeria’s First lady and the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as the people behind his candidature”.