Presidential aspirants under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday disagreed with the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike over his claim that some aspirants in the opposition party are being sponsored by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Gombe State governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo and former minister of special duties and intergovernmental affairs, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, denied knowledge of such sponsorship by the APC. Wike, had while speaking with newsmen alleged that some presidential aspirants under the PDP were being sponsored by the APC. He said: “But one thing you must take home is that I cannot be misled, I cannot be blindfolded; I know what’s going on. I know what the presidency and the APC are doing to plant a presidential aspirant in the PDP. “I have not even mentioned how a very senior official of a security agency in the country told me which of the candidates to support. You can imagine me as a governor and the head of a security agency would tell me to support one or two persons: head of security agency who is in a government controlled by the APC!Come on, you direct me on who to support for president?” But Wike’s colleague in Gombe State, Ibrahim Dankwambo, dispelled the claims, saying that each aspirant is qualified to contest in his right. Speaking through the spokesman of his campaign organisation, Ayoade Adewopo, told LEADERSHIP that: “We have no direct knowledge of such sponsorship amongst the aspirants in PDP. Each aspirant under the flagship of PDP is qualified to run in his own right.” According to the director of media in Tanimu’s campaign organisation, Sola Atere, said they can neither confirm nor deny the governor’s allegation. Atere said, “For us at the Kabiru Tanimu Turaki Presidential Campaign Organization, we can neither confirm nor deny His Excellency’s allegation because we are not privy to whatever information that he has at his disposal and even the source of his information. “We, however,hold His Excellency in high regard as a respected leader of our party and we believe that his loyalty and concern to protect the party’s legacy prompted the reaction credited to him.