With health workers joining the ongoing nationwide strike by the Nigerian labour unions, private hospitals in the country are reaping from the industrial dispute as many Nigerians are left with no other option than to patronise them. LEADERSHIP Weekend learnt that health workers, including nurses, record officers, pharmacists, laboratory scientists and others who attend to patients have joined the industrial action. When our correspondents visited some government hospitals in Lagos and Abuja, it was discovered that out-patients who are visiting the hospitals for routine check-ups were frustrated as there were not enough doctors available to attend to them. LEADERSHIP Weekend also learnt that though doctors were present in the hospitals, they were only attending to emergency/essential cases and in-house patients. At the Wuse District Hospital, Abuja, patients were seen moving out of the hospital. One of them, who identified herself simply as Mrs Lemona, told our correspondent that she was going back home and would return after the strike if she did not get money to go a private hospital before then. The hospital pharmacy was locked while the large reception room which was usually occupied by health workers had a security man manning it. The security man who refused to give his name told our correspondent that a lot of patients were moving out of the hospital as there were no nurses to trace their files or other health workers to attend to them. LEADERSHIP Weekend, however, gathered that some patients were referred to the Garki General Hospital which operates a public, private partnership (PPP) model. However, many who could afford it  took their health matters to private clinics, while others simply sought alternative means, especially in non-surgical cases. A hospital attendant at a private  hospital and maternity located in Karu, a suburb of the nation’s capital, who gave his name as Ralph Omale, said there was a noticeable increase in the number of new patients at the hospital. According to him, most of the cases involved women and children. At the Lagos University Teaching Hospital and General Hospital at Ikorodu, our correspondent learnt that the situation had led to long queues in non-clinical departments and pharmacies. Most of the patients  complained of not being attended to despite the fact that they came very early to see a doctor. One Mr Peter Abayomi, who wanted to see a cardiologist, said he had been on the queue since 7am. “Last week when I came to Ikorodu General Hospital, the doctor told me to come today for a follow-up. This queue was very long in the morning, but some patients, out of frustration, decided to go home or perhaps use the private clinics. Nobody has attended to us. It is so frustrating,” he said. Meanwhile, in an exclusive interview with the chairman, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Lagos Chapter, Dr Saliu Oseni, it was learnt that NMA was not part of the strike. He, however,  remarked that the NMA’s operations were being affected because there is little it can do, as most of the other health workers are on strike. He said, “What we are doing is to render emergency and essential services to Nigeria. Most government hospitals are trying to use administrative means to render emergency services so that Nigerians do not suffer. But that also has limitations, like the normal clinic may not run and normal operating system may not run also.” He said every department in the hospital was affected because there was no way doctors would operate without nurses, pharmacists and non-clinical departments. “What is being done is that the senior officers in the various departments are available to attend to patients, like the senior nurses are available at the theatres, but of course they cannot do as much as they used to do because of not enough hands on ground to assist. “Attenders are on strike; these are people that are supposed to attend to out-patients, but they are not on ground. Some hospitals have to arrange alternative means. They have to make special arrangements for people to locate patients’ cards and to attend to them before seeing a doctor.” Oseni advised that government and workers’ unions quickly resolve the dispute amicably. He said, “I want to plead with government to provide better welfare packages for her workers, so that the pressure on the little salary would be reduced. They can provide loans for cars and houses. That would go a long way. Government should also improve on the public schools because the school fees of private schools are alarming and that is what is taking most of the workers’ salary. “Most importantly, they should improve on Universal Health Coverage. When your health is covered, you spend less sending your children to school, you have better accommodation and a better welfare package, workers would demand for less. “Government should not say the money is not available, because we know how they are spending it. They should try and improve workers’ welfare packages because it will go a long way.” The spokesperson of the National Hospital, Dr Adetayo Haastrup,  told our correspondent that there were enough doctors at the hospital to attend to patients. “JOHESU (Joint Health Sector Unions), they are members of the NLC, they instructed their members to join the strike, they had to comply since it is the directive of their parent body but I tell you that we have doctors who are fully on ground.  So we have not closed shop; we are attending to patients here and our patients are in the wards,” said Haastrup. Passengers groan, as labour disrupts activities at Lagos airport Many passengers that arrived at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, yesterday to board planes to their respective destinations were chased away by members of organised labour that declared a strike Thursday to press home their demands from government. LEADERSHIP Weekend observed that members of organised labour stormed the Lagos airport to disrupt flight operations, thereby paralysing activities at the airport. LEADERSHIP Weekend observed that labour officials arrived at Airpeace airline as early as 7am and chased all the flight attendants from the counter, preventing passengers from checking in. Some of the passengers who spoke with LEADERSHIP Weekend said their programmes for the day and weekend had been disorganised. One of the passengers, Michael Ike, said: “My elder sister is wedding tomorrow in Imo State and I have made all necessary preparations to get to Owerri this morning, only for me to get to the airport to see that labour officials had disrupted flight operations.” The president of National Union of Civil Engineering Construction, Furniture and Wood Workers (NUCECFWW), Comrade Amaechi Asugwuni, said paralysing the nation’s activities was to enforce the position of National Executive Council (NEC) of all organs and labour centres in the country. “Our strike action is gaining impact. We will not rest until the federal government does the needful,” he said. The spokesman of Air Peace, Chris Iwarah, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that labour had no right to stop its workers from performing their duties and passengers from flying. He said: “Our position is you have the right to protest but you don’t have the right to disrupt our operations, because what we are doing is completely a private business. What they are doing is completely illegal. We expect security agencies to arrest the situation, to ensure those going about their lawful duties are not harassed.” Another passenger whose flight was disrupted said, “Many of them have rescheduled. What they have done has caused a lot of economic impact on our operations, as millions have been lost.” Similarly, labour groups went to the Island where there are concentrations of banks and workplaces, shut down their operations and chased out some of the workers who refused to comply. At Polaris and Union banks at Marina branch, the workers were chased out and the gates locked as they dared labour officials. Longs queues at ATMs Meanwhile, our correspondents observed  long queues at various banks as customers made frantic efforts to withdraw cash. Some of the bank customers told our correspondent that they were caught unawares by the decision of banks to join the ongoing strike. Some of them said they had no money at home and had come to the bank to withdraw from the counter. One of the bank customers, who gave her name as Mrs. Carol, said she came to the bank hoping to get money for family needs only to discover that her bank was shut. According to her, “I don’t know what to do now. I came to this bank this afternoon to get some money to pay for my child’s drugs only to discover that the bank has joined the strike. “I don’t know what to do. I don’t have an ATM card. Since the last time someone stole my card and made away with my money, I have stopped using the ATM.” On his part, another customer, Mr. Festus said, “I came to this bank to make some withdrawals for the weekend, only to find out that the bank was closed. “Even when I tried to see the bank manager, the security man said I cannot see anyone, and I was told to come today to collect my ATM card by their customer service officer. This means I’m stranded for the weekend,” he lamented. … Presidency wades in The presidency yesterday stepped up efforts to convince labour unions in the country to call off their strike following the earlier meeting at which the government accepted their demand to reconvene the tripartite meeting on the proposed new national minimum wage. A statement by the special assistant to the president on media, Garba Shehu, yesterday revealed that a meeting between the labour leadership and the representatives of the employers of labour had been scheduled to reconvene on Thursday, October 4. It gave assurance that the federal government was taking every step necessary to get the unions to call off the strike. The statement noted that by its tripartite nature, the committee is made up of persons from the public sector (Federal and State Governments) and the private sector made up of the largest private employer groups and the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA). Other members include the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) and Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMES), it said, adding that invitation letters had since been dispatched to all the participants. “At the moment, the Presidency understands that the combined leadership of the unions, having met and deliberated on the position of the government, have now set in motion a process of consultations with their constituent members to determine their next line of action,” it added.