The Senate President Bukola Saraki yesterday said the upper chamber of the National Assembly under his leadership will continue to stand with Benue people, saying the days of impunity were coming to an end. Saraki spoke yesterday at NKST Church, Low Level, Makurdi during a thanksgiving service to mark the 70th birthday celebration of Senator Barnabas Gemade who represents Benue North East. He said he was in Benue to celebrate with Senator Gemade and also speak with Benue delegates of the PDP over his ambition to contest for President in the 2019 general election. He acknowledged the warm reception he received from Benue delegate and commended governor Samuel Ortom for taking over structures of the party in the state. The Senate President, while congratulating the celebrant on his 70th birthday, described him as a man of integrity who has remained firm in the defense of his people on the floor of the senate. Governor Samuel Ortom in his address at the occasion,  appreciated members of the National Assembly for rising against impunity perpetrated in Benue State and other parts of the country. The Governor stated that people know their true friends in times of travails, stressing that the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki and other members of the National Assembly had indeed shown that they are true friends of Benue people when impunity was being supervised in the state. He urged Dr. Saraki to remain courageous in defending the rule of law and for ensuring that Nigerians get justice. He said the celebrant, Chief Gemade had impacted many lives positively, noting that his reign as Managing Director, Benue Cement Company, Minister, National Chairman of PDP and senator had left indelible achievements. Also speaking, the Tor Tiv, Orchivirigh Professor James Ayatse, tasked leaders on exemplary leadership and to prepare the young ones for leadership, even as he advised the youth against insulting elders and leaders. Senator Gemade had earlier acknowledged the role of many in his life, saying he is happy that at 70, God had helped him to touch lives. Representative of the Cross River State Governor, Professor Ben Ayade, Mr. Anthony Umdimdaye, Mr. Mike Onoja, Senator Dino Melaye also delivered congratulatory messages on the occasion.