Worried over the high cost of local rice, the federal government is making efforts to crash the price of local rice in the country on or before Christmas.
The minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, has disclosed that the federal government would meet millers for charting ways of crashing the price of local rice in the market. Speaking during a meeting with rice farmers, millers and processors in Abuja yesterday, Chief Ogbeh said the plan became necessary following the continued increase of rice especially during the Christmas celebration.He stated that the federal government has been discussing the modalities to make sure local rice sells much cheaper.
According to him, “Every country in the world supports agriculture whether they call it subsidy or support, it is exactly the same thing. We are happy that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has agreed to bring down interest rates on agriculture and manufacturing to one digit.
“We applaud that decision but at the level of Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and BOA, we have set up a fund which we intend to manage to support both the farmers, millers and marketers to bring down the price of rice because we are concerned about the cost of rice for the Nigerian family.” Furthermore, the minister said, “We want our people to feed well and feed cheaply but these things have to be managed carefully because we are dealing with public funds. “We are also going to meet in about two weeks and organise rice fair beginning in Lagos, Abuja, Enugu, Port Harcourt and one or two other cities to showcase the achievements of Nigeria in rice production. “There are those who do not believe that Nigerian rice exists but we know they do and we are very proud of the millers for their tenacity, investments and pains they have gone through in the last few years in trying to respond to a national call. “We cannot say enough about Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), we are very proud of you because there are those who didn’t believe it could happen so we thank all of you. “I want to convey to you the appreciation of not only the President but also the Vice President, a nation does not thrive at an import bill of food of 22 billion dollars a year,” he added.