The desire of the Lagos state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode to seek a second term in office seemed to have ran into hitches, given the twist that followed the sudden declaration of the former Lagos State Commissioners of Works and, Establishment and Training, Dr Obafemi Hamzat and Mr Jide Sanwolu respectively, to contest the 2019 governorship election under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. It was gathered that the mandate group controlled by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu that produces governors in Lagos State had gone ahead to endorse Mr Jide Sanwolu to succeed the incumbent governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode who had also obtained the nomination form. LEADERSHIP gathered  that prior to Ambode picking nomination and expression of interest forms, a caucus of the state assembly had met and warned the governor against seeking re-election. A source who was privy to the meeting told our correspondent that the caucus met and resolved that the governor must jettison the idea of a second term. According to the source, “At the caucus meeting, the lawmakers who obviously have a preferred candidate, resolved that they would commence impeachment proceedings should the governor go ahead with his plans to seek second term” Determined to test his popularity in the forthcoming poll, Ambode defied the lawmakers and went ahead to pick the form to contest for the office of governor again, in the 2019 polls. LEADERSHIP learnt that the lawmakers are acting on order from above to root for former commissioner of establishment and training, Mr Jide Sonwolu who picked the nomination and has been endorsed by different political groups within APC fold in the state.Since Ambode has defied the lawmakers by picking form, it is not clear whether the lawmakers will go ahead with their threats to impeach the him. But sources said the lawmakers are billed to hold executive session today preparatory to plenary Tomorrow where the decision on whether to commence impeachment proceedings against Ambode or not will be taken. Commenting on the development , a principal member and Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Rotimi Abiru,  said , ‘’It is an unconfirmed report as far as I am concerned.Others have gone to collect nomination form to contest for governorship position in the state. The Speaker is not even in town. If they are having meeting I don’t know what they are doing in the State House.’’ As of the time of filling this report, the embattled state governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode who is said to have unresolved issues with his estranged godfather, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was still in a crucial meeting with some political stakeholders said to be in his camp. A top government official who spoke to LEADERSHIP on condition of anonymity said, ‘’ This is politics , it is normal our national leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has always told us that power is not served ala-carte but that you fight for it. There is bound to be disagreement here and there at times like this. The governor consulted with Asiwaju before obtaining the form for second term. ‘’He got clearance from him before going ahead. Don’t forget the fifth columnists are at work too. It will be resolved. The governor will not withdraw his nomination form. it will be resolved. If there is anything the state government will issue official statement. ’’