Dates are  probably one of the oldest cultivated fruits in the world called  dabino in Hausa.  Commonly found in the Northern part of Nigeria, dates known to be packed with several amazing health benefits. A typical date fruit is a drupe where the outer fleshy part surrounds a shell of hardened endocarp with a seed in it. Dates which are oblong in shape comes in varying kinds which includes soft, semi-dry and dried dates, categorized on the basis of sugar content. The health benefits of dates includes: Boosts Heart Health: research has shown that dates contain a crystalline compound known as isoflavone, which are effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Date contains  antioxidants, which helps to prevent atherosclerosis,  a condition where the arteries become narrowed and hardened due to a build up of plaque around the artery wall. These antioxidants activates the removal of cholesterol from the artery cells. Contains Nicotine: the nicotine content present in dates are thought to be beneficial for curing intestinal disorders. Taking it consistently helps to inhibit the growth of pathological organisms which in turn helps stimulate growth of friendly bacteria in the intestines. Prevents night blindness: A lot of people tend to struggle with their sight under poor lighting conditions even if their eyes seem to physically be in good shape. There are many causes of night blindness, but one of the most common causes is the deficiency of vitamin A. Dates help to delay the macular degeneration of the eyes which is usually caused by ageing. Improves Bone Health: dates are packed with a rich amount of minerals. Minerals such as selenium, manganese, copper and magnesium which aids in strengthening the bones and curing diseases like osteoporosis. Promotes Healthy Skin: Vitamin C and D aids in protecting skin elasticity and  helps in maintaining a smooth skin. People suffering from skin issues, can add dates to their diets as it’s packed with anti-ageing benefits. Dental Health: Fluorine can be found in dates, it is an important chemical element that fights against tooth decay by shrugging off plaque and also strengthening the tooth enamel. Promotes Brain Health: studies have shown that dates provide protection against inflammation and oxidative stress in the brain. Consistent consumption of dates helps to lower the risk of neurodegenerative diseases and improves cognitive activities in older individuals.