As the march towards the 2019 general elections gathers momentum, aspirants to various elective offices across the political party divides have been bracing up for their individual aspired elective seats, from states and national assemblies, governorship, and the much coveted nation’s seat, the presidency. The electoral umpire has already set the ball rolling with drawing up elections time-table which is being religiously followed by the political parties in both knees-up and serious mindedness to promote electoral fortunes and ensure democratic governance as hallmark of civilian administration. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led by President Muhammad Buhari, seemingly has only one aspirant/candidate to the 2019 presidential election, as up till writing this piece, Buhari remains the only contestant within the ranks and files of the APC. As for the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), that hitherto ruled for 16 consecutive years only to allow the APC in 2015 wrest power from it, has an array of presidential hopefuls ahead of the 2019 elections with not less than 10 aspirants each trying to grasp the party’s ticket. They ranged from former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, who has for years been galloping within political parties in the bid to clinch onto the nation’s number one seat, former PDP governors Ahmed Makarfi, Sule Lamido, Rabi’u Kwankwaso, cross-carpeted APC – PDP turned governor Aminu Tambuwal, and former minister Tanimu Turaki. Also in the contest are the incumbent Senate President Bukola Saraki and Attahiru Bafarawa. Former governor Ibrahim Shekarau has just shifted the post from the PDP to the APC in search of Kano Senate seat, whereas the vibrant and promising Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo of Gombe state takes the stage to Aso-Rock Villa come 2019 polls. Dankwambo who declared for Nigeria’s President under the PDP on August 4, 2018, said his declaration followed wide consultations with party members and Nigerians of diverse background. In addition, various political meetings within the ranks and files of the PDP across the country have adopted Governor Dankwambo as a consensus presidential candidate of the party ahead of the 2019 elections. Dankwambo is a technocrat who served as a member CBN Board of Directors, President Accountants-General and Auditors-General Forum of West Africa, and Board member Extractive Industries Transparency International. A product of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), he holds Second Class Upper Division degree in Science Accounting and Master’s degree in Economics from the University of Lagos. Dankwambo heralded the revolution in the public sector towards a cashless economy by bringing about the implementation of E-payment system, a completely new concept in the financial services of government. Other reforms he introduced include the New Chart of Account, the Accounting Transactions Recording and Reporting System (ATRRS), a concept that removed the stress of having to prepare and carry hard copies of accounts by the MDA’s to the Office of the Accountant-General of the federation. The International Public Sector Accounting Standard Board to upgrade the preparation and reporting of Nigeria’s financial statements up to International standards was the brain-child of Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo. Dankwambo as Accountant-General of the federation embarked on the upgrading of Federal Treasury Academy to university standard for the training of public sector accountants, and affiliating it to a highly recognized public sector body in the United Kingdom, the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accounting (CIPFA). Having served for six years as Accountant-General of the Federation, Dankwambo in 2011 resigned his appointment to take active part in partisan politics, consequently contested the gubernatorial elections in Gombe and won, with his tenure witnessing massive infrastructural development that shaped the landscape of the state. Dankwambo’s seven years of stewardship of visionary leadership and prudent management of resources, coupled with transparency and accountability has made him turn Gombe state into a model in spite of meagre resources being accrued to the state from the federation account. The Dankwambo administration formulated a well-established guiding norms through the domestication of Fiscal Responsibility Act passed into law by the state government aimed at guiding accountability and transparency in governance. The law equally changed that state’s budgeting process, making it more resource realistic. Dankwambo, having vast experience in accounting procedures significantly changed the mode of governance in Gombe state by embracing International financing reporting format in tandem with the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC). The model made Gombe state’s budgetary sub-system easily interoperable with other automated systems in public finance management such as Vendor and Contact Management, Centralized Internally Generated Revenue, Payroll and Treasury Management, and Debt Management, among others. Gombe state under the able leadership of Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo domesticated the Pensions Reform Act of the Federal Government to address issues concerning retirement benefits to tally with government’s cash flow. His visionary leadership is further heightened by his commitment to accountability and transparency in governance with a view to strengthening fiscal performance and sustainability at the state level. Gombe under Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo witnessed tremendous socio-economic and political transformation that saw the construction and rehabilitation of over 3, 000 km stretch roads across the state, as well as the establishment of a modern Commodity Depot & Exchange Centre, Gombe International Conference Centre, and Automation of the State Revenue Collection System for effective public finance, among others. Dankwambo was also instrumental to the establishment of Talba Empowerment Scheme that saw self-reliance in youths, who were not only gainfully employed but are also employers of labour in nooks and crannies of the state resulting from uninterrupted supply of electricity. A Ph.D. holder in Accounting, Dankwambo while declaring his intention to contest for the nation’s plum seat, said, “I am running, and I will win. Extensive consultations have been done and Nigerians will soon see a wind of genuine renaissance blowing all over their land”. The governor had realized that what Nigeria needs at this critical time is a man who can take the country to its best, a man who can re-energize the people who have been desperately led that they have accepted a certain impotence as the reality of their lives” Dankwambo said: “Nigeria needs a man who can fire its imagination, release the people from shackles of poverty, disease and ignorance, saying “I don’t want to just be President, I want to be the leader of a 180 million-strong army of achievers. The country needs is a leader who can fight all kinds of injustices from which the people are suffering.” – Buzaye, chairman of N/East Forum for Better Nigeria, wrote from Bauchi Dankwambo as a governor and PDP presidential hopeful has been a man of Nigerians generally, an administrator per excellent and prudent manager of resources that takes Gombe state to unprecedented heights in the comity of among states thereby earning the accolades to carry the party’s flag to the February 2019 presidential polls. Adamu Hassan Buzaye, Chairman of North East Forum for Better Nigeria, wrote from Bauchi .