The gubernatorial screening committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the South-South geopolitical zone, led by Ambassador Obed Wadzani, yesterday, screened and cleared Rivers State governor, Chief Nyesom Ezenwo Wike to contest the party’s primary ahead of the 2019 elections. The committee, which is sitting at the PDP zonal office in Port Harcourt, also screened and cleared Akwa-Ibom State governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel and his Delta State counterpart, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa. Also, the gubernatorial screening committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) sitting in Abuja, on Friday night, screened and cleared the senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe and former member of the House of Representatives, Dr Dawari George, to contest the party’s primary ahead of the 2019 elections. The committee also screened and cleared former member, executive director of Sahara Group, Architect Tonye Dele Cole, and former chairman, Governing Board of Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs. Speaking to newsmen after his screening, George, who is also a former commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources in Rivers State, said his presence and screening were in compliance with relevant articles and provisions of the APC Constitution and relevant rules as ratified by the National Executive Committee (NEC). He said, “I have been screened today, Friday, by the Screening Committee, in pursuant to the Articles and Provisions of the APC Constitution, having been duly nominated as a governorship aspirant by members of APC in Rivers State.” On the chances of APC in next year’s election, the governorship hopeful stated that the party was working, not only to win the gubernatorial election and other elective positions in Rivers State in 2019, but to win convincingly. George said, “The APC in Rivers State is not only working to win the governorship and other elective offices in Rivers State, but we want to win fairly and convincingly.”  He stated that he was looking forward to offering a purposeful and people-centered leadership to the state if he gets the mandate of his party during the primaries. The APC governorship aspirant said: “I have offered myself to serve our state because my training as a development expert and my wide ranging experiences in the private sector and the public sector, both in the executive and legislative arms of government, have prepared me to tackle headlong, the challenges of insecurity, unemployment and infrastructure deficits plaguing our state.”