Candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the governorship election in Osun State, Senator Iyiola Omisore, yesterday said his party would support the All Progressives Congress (APC) for today’s supplementary poll. Omisore who spoke to journalists in his Ile-Ife country home said after the election, SDP and APC would form a coalition government. He noted that the ruling party accepted manifestoes of his party, which he said are people oriented. The former federal lawmaker said SDP’s decision to form a coalition government is based on the party that is ready to work with SDP to adopt and implement the core values of the party, which is social justice and good governance. He said, “Our core values and philosophy as indicated in our SDP manifestoes (“Restoration Agenda”), have all been presented to the APC and the PDP representatives, who have approached us for support and formation of a coalition government. “For the Restoration Agenda to be effectively implemented, Social Democratic Party (Osun state) would ensure that her core values are considered and incorporated into the development agenda of the party of choice for a meaningful coalition. “In this regard, we have forwarded our proposals for coalition government to the PDP representatives headed by the Senate President (Sen. Bukola Saraki) and the APC high powered delegation by Dr. Kayode Fayemi the newly elected governor of Ekiti state. “The APC had since come back to accept all the conditions proposed to them by us to form a coalition government while the PDP is yet to respond. We have therefore as a party accepted to support the APC for victory in the rerun election tomorrow and thereafter form a coalition government.” A People’s Democratic Party (PDP) delegation led by Senate President Bukola Saraki had on Monday solicited Omisore’s support for the supplementary election.
Omisore had said shortly after the meeting that he would work with any political party that is ready to adopt his manifesto. Omisore’s Decision Shameful – Fani-Kayode
But former minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, yesterday described as shameful, Omisore’s decision to form an alliance with the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of today’s supplementary governorship election in Osun State.  Fani-Kayode who also hails from the state said that by that decision, Omisore has denied Ile-Ife the position of deputy governor because of money. Omisore emerged the beautiful bride of both the APC and PDP after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the September 22 governorship election inconclusive. The former minister added that the SDP candidate had assured him and Ayo Adebanjo separately that he would stand firm with the PDP.
Fani-Kayode said, “Iyiola Omisore’s decision to support the APC in tomorrow’s rerun is shameful. It is sad that he would seek to deny Ile-Ife the position of Deputy Governor simply for money.
“He told me he would stand firm two days ago and he told our leader and father Baba Ayo Adebanjo the same thing last night”. Osun People Will Speak Again Today – Saraki
Meanwhile, Senate President Bukola Saraki said yesterday that he is convinced that the candidate of the PDP, Senator Ademola Adeleke, will emerge governor-elect in today’s supplementary election in Osun State. Saraki spoke while fielding questions from journalists in Katsina shortly after addressing PDP stakeholders at the Katsina State secretariat of the party ahead of next month’s presidential primary election of the party. The PDP presidential hopeful hinged his argument on the premise that the party had the highest number of votes in last Saturday’s inconclusive gubernatorial poll in Osun. Saraki said, “We won the last one but we will go back to the field. We are very confident that we will win again. As you know, the total number of PVCs collected is only 2500 out of over 3000. We all know that not more than half of the people will vote anyway. “So, the maximum votes we are talking about are probably 12,000. And of the seven polling units, we are strong in at least four. So, by all indications, we are all going to be at alert. The people have spoken once already; they will speak again on Thursday. We should respect the wishes of the people. ‘I am sure by tomorrow (today) we will have a PDP governor-elect in Ademola Adeleke. My own appeal to INEC and security agencies is that everybody is watching Nigeria now. Let’s do the right thing and let’s ensure free and fair elections.” On the PDP presidential primary, Saraki expressed confidence that Katsina State delegates would give him their maximum support based on his close friendship with the leaders and people of the state over the years. “The people of Katsina appreciate that I am somebody they can work with and I am somebody that will always protect their interest and somebody that has shown over the years that I am a close friend of Katsina,” he said.