The Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF), yesterday, appointed Kadliura Carolyn Samuel as its executive secretary. According to the chairman of NYPF, Moses Siloko Siasia, the appointment is in pursuance of the determination to strengthen NYPF’s corporate structure for effectiveness and inclusion. “The appointment of Kadliura Carolyn Samuel as the new executive secretary is in pursuance of the determination to strengthen NYPF’s corporate structure for effectiveness and inclusion. “The appointment has increased the number of women on the board of NYPF to 45 per cent.” Speaking further, he said, “Kadliura, who has a background in Public Sector Administration with experience spanning several years has worked with the Adamawa State government under the Special Projects and Programs Unit (SPPU) as Special Assistant on Political Mobilisation and Enlightenment and as a collaborative entrepreneurship guide on youth-led organisations towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) in Nigeria, where she has also worked and volunteered with Education for Sustainable Youth Leadership Initiative (ESYLI), ICON AFRIQUE, Centre for Peace Advancement in Nigeria (CEPAN) and Beyond Boundaries Legacy Leadership Initiative (BBLLI). Before her appointment, Kadliura was a Program Strategy Planner. She has initiated the creation and formation of Sustainable and Transformational activities for BMO’s and CSO’s. Kadliura has also initiated and partnered in promoting and projecting the mission of Nigerian Young Professionals Forum, NYPF, since 2014 with the aim of achieving a more sustainable future for youths in Nigeria. She is passionate about finding workable solutions and strategies for addressing challenges to youth inclusiveness in economic, political and societal development in Nigeria and around the world. Kadliura is an Alumnus of the United States Institute on Social Entrepreneurship funded by the United States Government. The Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF) is a non-governmental organisation composed of young professionals from different fields of human endeavour under a unified platform to achieve three major objectives which are; creating sustainable livelihood for young people, engendering purposeful leadership and social democratic inclusion and encouraging young people’s participation in governance and the economic process. The NYPF unites and networks with over 2million young Nigerian professionals globally, cutting across 15 countries with the largest population of young people in Africa. According to Siasia, this appointment will help strengthen NYPF towards achieving its core mandates, as well as, engage more women in the task of reshaping the society as a core objective of the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum. 