Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been described as an honest man, who does not lie. Making this declaration, yesterday, was the Oluwo of Iwo Kingdom, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi. The royal father said this while hosting Osinbajo for the inauguration of a credit loan on Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises, MSMSEs, ‘Tardermoni,’ which is designed to boost the enterprise of petty traders with low capital. Oba Akanbi said that he is optimistic of Osinbajo’s pledge to deliver certain infrastructures lacking in the South-West zone. Lamenting the disconnect of Iwoland from other cities, caused by bad road network, Oba Akanbi prayed the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government to address the roads connecting Iwo with Ibadan and Osogbo, the Osun State capital. The Oluwo said Iwo town is popular for its progressivism, beseeching the government to consider the plight of the city in infrastructural facilities such as the Iwo-Ibadan road, Iwo-Osogbo road, Iwo-Ejigbo road, federal learning institutions, and federal appointments. He said, “I’ve listed our pains to my son, Yemi Osinbajo. He pledged to address them to the best of his ability. “I’m optimistic of his assurances and I pray for God’s guidance and strength to deliver his promises. “Iwo-Ibadan road is an headache, not only to Iwo but also to Nigeria. Road accessibility to Iwo is paramount to sustainability of commercial interaction between Osun and Oyo states. “Iwo is equally lacking in federal government presence of agencies and institutions. With God and Osinbajo’s assurances, we are good to go. “The VP, Osinbajo, is an honest man who doesn’t lie. His virtue promoted him to his current status. “My knowledge of him is an acknowledgement of a cultured man, who respects and fulfills promises with fear of God.” The monarch appealed to beneficiaries to make judicious use of the loan, stating that first impression lasts longer. He added that business money is a working capital to promote one’s standard of influence and not for merriment or ceremonies, like burial, marriage, and other non-monetary rewarding engagements.