Ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, convention on October 6, 2018, a group called National Association of Niger Delta Students, yesterday, threw its weight behind the presidential ambition of former Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, under the platform of the party. This was made known in a statement by the Vice President, NANDS, Comrade Godwin Erheriene, which he said, “No better time for the emergence of a catalyst of prosperity than no other person than a person with the spirit of entrepreneurship and capacity building: Dr. Sule Lamido.” He further stated that based on the pedigree and vast experience of Lamido in various levels of governance and public administration he remains the best candidate that the PDP could present to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress, APC, come 2019. He said, “Dr. Sule Lamido has always been in the scene. He is not just a founding father of P.D.P at 1998 but a core founding father who spearheaded the G9. A man endowed with diplomatic skills is exemplary, and a man with leadership virtue. “This attribute is as intrinsically to his rationality which was tested in a pragmatic situation as the then minister of Foreign affairs under President Olusegun Obasanjo that led to so many international allies enjoyed by Nigerians but being threatening today under this administration. “It will interest Nigerians to know prior to the advent of President Obasanjo, that our international relationship was in total disarray under the leadership of late Gen. Sani Abacha, but restored to normal by Sule Lamido brainchild under Obasanjo. “On Educational sector, Lamido has shown unrelenting desire to mentally equip the young and youths to be ready to pilot the affairs of the state. And that led to the creation of a State owned University (Sule Lamido Unversity Kafin Hausa) and also influenced the establishment of Federal University, Dutse (F.U.D) and numerous secondary schools including school for the gifted strictly on scholarship. “We use this platform to call on all P.D.P key stakeholders including the delegates for anticipated 6th OCT 2018 convention to support a resourceful leader as the Presidential flag bearer of the great part. According to him with PDP’s leadership experience in both internal and external politics make it ahead of others as far as good governance is concern including its political flexibility amongst her members, therefore a credible candidate like Lamido will be the best choice to take the party back to victory in 2019. 