In this report, GEORGE AGBA, attempts and assessment of the Nigerian Military and the effort to contain security challenges in the country, with a view to maintaining the country’s sovereignty since independence. There is a consensus that Nigeria, warts and all, is a work in progress and therefore Nigerians should see themselves as part of the whole called the Nigeria Project. Beyond all the wreath-laying activities marking the Independence Day, it behoves on all and sundry to be rededicated to building a nation of the dream of the founding fathers. This, analysts say, is what should drive the raging debate on the nation’s future. The thinking is that between stubborn defence of position and fearless discussions, there is a nexus of understanding, and that nexus is that Nigeria must be kept as one. This entails that Nigerians across race, region and religion take the issue of Nigeria’s sovereignty very seriously. The view in informed circles is settled that Nigeria’s sovereignty and democracy owe its robust sustenance to the tireless commitment of the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN). Governance has blossomed since 1999 when Nigerians again chose democracy after 1979, with the inauguration of the elected government of former President Shehu Shagari. Since then, a lot of water, as they say, has passed under the bridge. In Nigeria, there is a congruence of opinion that the military has, in many positive ways, boosted the sustenance of peace, harmony, unity, security and stability of the nation. President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office on March 29, 2015 with a three-agenda mantra to increase economic productivity, engage corruption and tackle national insecurity, especially in the North East part of the country where Boko Haram’s insurgency held sway. The popular narrative is that military operations have spared the nation the orgy of violence, tension and instability, particularly in the build-up to next year’s general election. That the nation and democracy have survived for over 17 years since 1999 is a big plus to the active players of the game and indeed all Nigerians. It is more of applause to the Nigerian military under the current leadership for their subordination to civil authority and enviable faith in democracy and Project Nigeria. It is an apt expression of the determination of all stakeholders to uphold and defend democracy. Unarguably, democracy cannot flourish in an atmosphere of anarchy, violence and general insecurity. That it has survived this long is a mystery to many. The Nigerian military has demonstrated in the recent years that they are not just guardians of the Nigerian sovereignty and democracy but that they are more interested in laying the template to ensure that democratic institutions work very well. Defence scholars, at a recent security roundtable in Kaduna, observed that the military has readjusted national defence training programmes to incorporate maintenance of internal security, robust military-civilian relations and deploying non-kinetic measures to de-radicalise and re-integrate repentant Boko Haram members into the society as part of ways to drive a citizen-driven military force where citizens play their civic roles in promoting national security and stability. A citizen-oriented military force, they argued, is necessary for improved security architecture where a robust citizen engagement and community organising rank very high. Their involvement through divulging credible, useful and timely information to security agencies is paramount to fostering peace, law and order in the country. “No single arm of the security agencies can secure the nation alone. We suggest a more coordinated response by security outfits and the involvement of the citizens in tackling our growing security problems”, a communiqué issued after the security parley in Kaduna noted. Recently, United States’ President Donald Trump had applauded the Nigerian military’s defeat of Boko Haram. The commendation came not too long ago after a World Conference on Global Coalition on Terrorism in Washington which was attended by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin and over 200 Chiefs of Defence Staff from about five continents. At the conference, Mr Rex Tillerson who was the US Secretary of State, publicly endorsed the operational synergy, intelligence and information-sharing of the Nigerian military, which he said had been steadily pursued as Nigeria’s counter-terrorism strategy. During President Buhari’s last state visit to the United States, he secured the purchase of Super Tucano fighter aircrafts for the Nigerian military’s war on terror, noting that the Olonisakin-led leadership of the military started gaining the upper hand in the operations as a result of the team’s fresh focus, discipline, professionalism and commitment anchored on probity, fresh tactical and strategic approach. Also, at the ongoing United Nations General Assembly in New York, President Donald Trump and other world leaders expressed confidence in President Buhari’s efforts in the counter-terrorism strides of the Nigerian military. True to this testimonies, before May 2015, over 90 per cent of the entire land mass of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States were under the control of Boko Haram. This changed dramatically under the present government. Significantly, the military has employed creative strategic interventions to successfully engage insecurity across the country such as the Operation Lafiya Dole in the North East where aggressive counter-insurgency warfare has been successfully waged against Boko Haram to dislodge Sambisa Forest, Boko Haram’s dreaded enclave on December 22, 2016. Estimated at over 60,000 square kilometers, the sect’s fortress fell in 18 months after President Buhari assumed office. Operation Delta Safe in the Niger Delta area protects critical oil installations from attacks and routs oil theft, pipeline vandalism, illegal oil bunkering and other criminalities in the oil-rich region. The troops’ across the country have successfully de-escalated tension in communities affected by criminal herdsmen attacks. In the Southern Kaduna area, security has improved after two army formations were created under Operation Kunama II. In the North Central where Operation Safe Haven holds sway in Benue, Kogi, Nasarawa Kwara and Plateau States against sectarian and ethno-religious conflicts including cattle rustling, gun-running, kidnapping, armed robbery and sundry criminalities, remarkable peace has returned. There are simultaneous military operations and Joint Task Forces currently in force in about 27 states of the Federation to assist the Police in dealing with violent crimes. “The Nigerian military remains steadfast in the execution of their duties spread across the various flashpoints across the nation fighting insurgency, militancy, communal clashes and cattle rustling, among others, all in a bid to ensure the country’s collective security,’’ the Minister of Defence, Brig. Gen. Mansur Dan-Ali (rtd), once said while giving insurance cheques to families of fallen servicemen. Corroborating this, Senator Ali Ndume representing Borno South Senatorial District said, “The truth is that Boko Haram has been defeated. Book Haram has not been eliminated but they have been defeated; it is not even a technical defeat. What we are calling for now is not for the defeat of Boko Haram but their total elimination. “The good side of it is that the government is responding appropriately. I am happy with the responses of the Nigerian Army, where the Chief of Army Staff has ordered and relocated the Operational Headquarters of the Army to Gozombali in the Guzama LGA of Borno State. That is very commendable. I am hoping that at the same time, they will increase and intensify the fight against insurgency in other black spots in the Sambisa Forest and the Mandara Mountains in the Gworza LGA. “The remnants of Boko Haram that are trapped in the Lake Chad area around the fringes between Cameroon, Niger, Sambisa Forest and the Mandara Mountains, are the ones fighting to survive as they are fast running out of food and other critical supplies’’. Giving insight into Ndume’s comment, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, explained that the terrorists carried out the latest attacks in response to increased pressure by the Nigerian troops, adding that the noose will be further tightened against the sect. He said that in the last two years not much attention was paid to Borno North in the fight against insurgency and terrorism until now. He said, “The Nigerian army is now consolidating in northern part of Borno. For almost two years, we have not paid attention to northern Borno, until about last year – 2017, when we directed our focus to this area. But now that we have given attention to northern Borno, especially the Lake Chad Basin, we have seen the activities of the Boko Haram terrorists coming up. “We have seen their reactions to the way we have been dealing with them. All those attacks were as a result of closing in on them that our troops are doing. We will tighten the noose around their logistics bases. But they are taking advantage of knowledge of the terrain to move in between our troops’ deployment”. Questions in some quarters about the possible intractability of terrorism in the North East have continued to agitate the minds of many lately. Weighing in on this recently, a chieftain of the National Action Agains Terror (NAAT), Mallam Tukur Musa Tilde said that it is a battle of narratives like what happens in every battle against terrorism. He spoke recently on a television discussion programme monitored in Abuja. Tilde said, “The side with the superior narrative takes the day, not necessarily as a result of what happens at the battle front. In Nigeria, owing to factors that many unsuspecting Nigerians seem not to know, Boko Haram has continued to win on their narrative unhindered-and this should not be. “One major factor is that everybody sees the fight as a military fight. They see the war as a war for the military alone. The current level of involvement of the generality of the people does not show that they realise that the entire nation is in a state of war which must be fought collectively. The Nigerian military has decisively taken the fight as a Nigerian fight”. Also lending its voice is Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC), a civil advocacy group. According to the group, the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) currently under the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, has on many past occasions pulled the nation from the brink of danger and disaster. Chief media strategist of the CPC, Mr Emeka Nwankpa called for greater support to the Nigerian military to keep the nation safe, secure, united and stable. Nwankpa said, “The point bears repeating that the current time calls for the collective efforts of all Nigerians to work towards the growth and development of the country. We have no other country. Our service men have paid the supreme price to keep this nation together’’. The CPC spokesman noted that real infrastructural development in the country actually took place during the military intervention. “Let’s face it, the real infrastructural development in the major capital cities of the country were done by the military. It is an irony that in 1979 and 1999, the same military voluntarily relinquished power to the civilians? Is this not why President Olusegun Obasanjo and General Abdulsalam Abubakar today remain the darling of the free world because of that feat?” He queried. Nwankpa said that performance was therefore on every lip when President Buhari appointed General Olonisakin as CDS with the three service chiefs to lead the Armed Forces. He added that the vision-driven CDS began to chart a new direction based on the President’s grand strategy directive which he said is anchored on a vision geared towards ensuring well-motivated, trained and equipped Armed Forces that is responsive to national security commitments. “The president’s diligent selection of these competent service chiefs is paying off indeed. They have changed the focus of the armed forces and have re-positioned Nigeria’s image in the comity of nations”, Nwankpa stated. In his submission, Mallam Kasim Baba Kasim, the Northern Rapporteur of the CPC, said it is to the credit of the CDS, the Chief of Army Staff and the Chief of Air Staff that the Theatre commanders of Operation Lafiya Dole in the North East have worked very hard to restore security and stability in the region with over 20,000 hostages comprising men, women and children rescued and over 10,000 territories and communities liberated from Boko Haram and now back to their ancestral roots. He said, “Our military’s successful battles against terror in the North East region have brought about a steady decimation of the Boko Haram terrorists. Boko Haram has since lost the capacity the launch direct coordinated attacks as well as hold Nigerian territories at will. It is a fact that insurgency is dead and buried in the North East. There is nothing like resurgence either. “The pockets of attacks by remnant of the sect are repelled by our gallant troops, for example, the isolated incidents of Gudumbali and Damasak recently. They are a propaganda stunt to create panic and push a false narrative that they are still relevant whereas they are not’’. Affirming CPC’s position, Dr. Emmanuel Onoja, a defence scholar writing on ‘Imperative of Military Operations in Combating Civil Disorder in Nigeria’, observed that the Nigerian Military has done very well in quelling civil disorder and armed conflicts in the country. He explained that wherever a crisis erupted in the country and overwhelmed the civil police, the military was usually constitutionally deployed by the President, Commander-in Chief to aid civil authority in the restoration of law and order, peace and security. He noted that the Nigerian military has been very efficient and effective in carrying out this patriotic duty across the country as a result of which Nigeria has received commendations from world leaders committed to the strengthening and sustenance of global peace, security and stability. “Today, the Nigerian armed forces under Gen. Olonisakin and the service chiefs have assiduously achieved a safe, stable and secure nation by tackling security threats particularly terrorism and insurgency. Other crimes such as cattle rustling, oil robbery, militancy, armed kidnapping, farmers’/herdsmen clashes, community clashes have also been checked through kinetic and non-kinetic measures to maintain Nigeria’s sovereignty’’, he said. In his contribution, Mr Chidi Omeje, the national coordinator of Citizens Initiative for Security Awareness (NISA), averred that the military had never been engaged in so many internal security operations as they are now. He said the military is presently caught between armed conflicts of different shape and scope. His said, “Today, every inch of the three States is free. This feat was achieved by the gallant troops of Operation Lafiya Dole under the command of present crop of focused, highly committed and hardcore military service chiefs led by the CDS, General Olonisakin”. Also, Secretary of the vocal and influential Borno Elders’ Council, Dr Bulama Mai Gubio, said that the military and other security forces, including the Civilian JTF, are collaborating very well to keep the locations safe and secure and that the people themselves were no longer afraid to go back to their ancestral homes. “What gave the sect an upper hand before now was the mistrust between the military and the people coupled with the massive destruction of settlements by the sect. Today, the mistrust has varnished and the military has moved to pursue the remnant of the sect into the nooks and crannies of the region”, Gubio said. On his part, a Warri-based defence analyst, Dr Fynecountry Baribote, noted that the CDS has pursued the inter-agency theory as a war-time strategy, which has helped the military and other security agencies to successfully fight insurgency, terrorism, militancy and other forms of crime and criminality that pose grave threat to national unity, peace and stability in the country. Also, a public affairs commentator, Okanga Agila, in his contribution to the national discourse, believes that the operations were the best gift by the military to Nigerians aside as the safest safeguard against threats to the sovereignty and democratic governance in the country. He urged citizens to speak up against what he described as the hollow anti-military rhetoric. “President Buhari’s choice of the present Gen. Olonisakin-led hierarchy of the Nigerian military was carefully made. It explains why the military, particularly the Nigerian Army, has not only preached this sermon, but acted it in virtually all parts of Nigeria and excelling in every assignment with integrity and dignity’’, Agila said.