The Nigerian Ambassador to Doha, Qatar, Ambassador Abdullahi Bawa Wase has passed on. He died in the Qatari capital, Doha, on Friday after battling with undisclosed ailments. His death was confirmed yesterday through a statement by the spokesman, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tope Elias-Fatile. It said the late ambassador had been sick for a while until his death on Friday evening. “The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, received the news of his death with shock and prayed that God grant his family and the nation the fortitude to bear the great loss,” the statement reads. The late Ambassador Wase, who was buried in Doha at 7pm Nigerian time yesterday, was nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2016 along with 47 others for the post of ambassadors to represent Mr. President in 48 countries of the world as non-career ambassadors. Late Ambassador Wase was an appointee from Plateau State with definitive multi-faceted disciplinary background, with over 30 years working experience in scientific and Human Resources management. Before his appointment, he had coordinated resource researches, corporate public analysis undertaking, as well as indepth intelligence networking, utility analysis, with over 1,483 top-level paper presentations at various course centres, conferences, seminars, summits and workshops. He also taught in top security outfits in Nigeria, including the famous Police Staff College in Jos, instructing the Advanced Detective Courses (ADC) (I & II) for the Assistant Superintendents of Police, Inter-Mediate Command Course (for the Superintendents and Chief Superintendents of Police), Junior Command Course (JCC) for Chief Superintendents and Assistant Commissioners of Police, as well as Senior Command Course (SCC) for Assistant Commissioners of Police and Deputy Commissioners for the purpose of promotion to the ranks of Deputy Commissioners and Commissioners of Police respectively, for years. Wase had been a visiting lecturer to the Post-Graduate Institute of Accountancy (ANAN), called National College of Accountancy, lecturing Public Sector Accounting and Advanced Financial-Accounting up until 2004. He also taught at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, taking Graduate and Post-Graduate students on Strategic Management, Advanced Auditing and Investigations, Cost-Accounting and Basic Mathematics, Corporate Finance and Public Policy analysis. The late diplomat was a widely travelled man, travelling to 102  countries of the world in 41 years for studies, scholarships, research, work and tours. Some of the countries were: Algeria, Brazil, Chad, Congo, Denmark, Ethiopia, Eritria, Germany, Ghana, Gambia, Gabon, Japan, Kenya, Morocco, Niger, Republic, Sweden,  Switzerland, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Tunisia, U.K, U.S.A., and Qatar. LEADERSHIP  Sunday reports that  Wase is the third diplomat to die in service this year. A Nigerian diplomat was found dead at his home in Khartoum, Sudan in May, last year, while Queen Imaria Worlu, Nigeria’s ambassador to Sao Tome and Principe,  also died in service in July. PMB Mourns President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the sudden death of Nigeria’s Ambassador to Qatar, Mr. Abdullahi Bawa Wase. A statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the president on media and publicity, noted that Buhari, while extending his condolences to the family members, the government and people of Plateau State, praised the roles played by the late Wase in conflict resolution efforts in Plateau State. He recalled that even before his appointment as ambassador, the late Wase was very prominently involved in community peace activism. President Buhari prayed to Allah to forgive the sins of the late Ambassador, grant him eternal rest and give his family the fortitude to bear the loss.