The celebration over the killing of North West most notorious criminal gang leader Buharin Daji was recently shattered with fresh attacks by elements suspected to be lieutenants of the of the late Bandit leader. Abba Kabara (Gusau) reports on the new wave of mass killings in Zamfara State. With the killing of 21 bandits by troops of the Nigerian Army on Thursday in Tunga Daji, Anka local government of Zamfara State, the protracted attacks by armed bandits in Zamfara and some states in the North West may not be over. This is coming after the reported killing of notorious bandit kingpin Buharin Daji recently by a combined security operations in the state. In a statement by the director, Army Public Relations, Texas Chukwu, troops of 232 Battalion Zuru, while on clearance patrol on Wednesday, encountered the armed bandits and ”neutralised 21 of them.” The Army spokesman said many bandits also escaped with gunshot wounds. He said two soldiers died during the operation. “Unfortunately we lost an officer and a soldier during the encounter. The remains of the officer and soldier has been evacuated to Federal Medical Center Gusau,” the spokesperson said. He listed recoveries from the bandits to include: five AK 47 assault rifles, one light machine gun, five magazines and 35 rounds of 7,62mm special ammunition. In spite of the recent success of the security agents against banditry, Zamfara still remains a colony of killer agents. Evidently, public apprehension is mounting as the state is gradually becoming economically vandalised, socially traumatised and risk being politically disenfranchised due to the incessant and prolonged brutal bandits’ attacks and mass killings of rural communities. Barely five days after President Muhammadu Buhari paid official visit to the state to condole the government and people of over the unfortunate mass murder of thousands of citizens, the armed bandits launched another major attack on Bawon Daji village of Anka LGA, allegedly killing dozens of people and wounding several others. Eyewitnesses told LEADERSHIP Sunday that large number of armed bandits on motorbikes besieged the village in the late evening of Tuesday, and begun to shoot at the unsuspecting peasant community, killing several people on the spot and immediately retreated into the forest. “After the operation, over thirty bodies littered the scene”, said an eyewitness adding that  other victims were murdered on the outskirts of the village. The eyewitness further said in the early morning of the following Wednesday when community members were burying the dead, the bandits besieged the burial square and killed three people. Though the council chairman of Anka LGA, Hon. Mustapha Gado Anka confirmed the death of twelve persons in the first attack and three others in the second attack, while the Zamfara police spokesman, DSP Muhammad Shehu said only three persons were confirmed killed in the attack. Ironically, the brutal operation came on the heels of what sounded like a final warning by the president, with executive orders he gave the military and the police to deal decisively with the decedents and make sure the bandits were flushed out dead before the fall of rainy season. The mode of operation adopted in the recent attack LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt did not indicate elements of reprisal attack as was often the case with cattle rustlers as there was no trace of any cattle rustled in the operation. This time, it was only the blood of the innocents that was spilled, which many have likened to act similar to Book Haram style of operation. Just as President Buhari expressed the belief that the demise of the dreaded leader of the armed bandits, the Buhari Tsoho, commonly known as Buharin Daji “does not comfortably mean the final end to the problem”, he however observes, “there are his remaining lieutenants still alive and may continue with the criminal acts”, many are of the belief that the late criminal leader’s lieutenants are out to continue his mission. His main enclave is located within Dansadau district of Maru LGA from where he organises and gives orders for attack on selected communities. His operation was always brutal and merciless, and he never cared to deny his heinous crimes. Buharin Daji is now no more, but it is evident that there is still much to do by the security forces because most of this seemingly unrepentant lieutenants are still very much active, considering the recent attack and killing of dozens of innocent citizens in Zamfara. Before his death, bandit leader had released a warning in a recorded audio massage that his notorious crime activities will make Zamfara worse that Maiduguri and its environs, threatening that this will come to pass even after his death, challenging security authorities. The death of Buhahin Daji sparked up simultaneous jubilation across the state, especially when recorded evidence of his killing by his close allies was heard by thousands across the state. At the December 2017 peace dialogue between a government committee headed by the Zamfara State deputy governor, Mallam Ibrahim Wakkala, on one hand, and the large group of bandits headed by their leader Buharin Daji, at least 1,000 bandits including the notorious leader agreed to lay down their arms with a promise to turn a new leaf. Following the peace dialogue, the state enjoyed relative peace until the sudden attack and killing of over four peasant farmers in Zurmi LGA. The Zurmi incidence came as a rude shock as the peace agreement struck between the government and the bandits was already in effect.  An audio clip released on social media few days before the Zurmi incidence suggested that the peace deal may have been thrown into the waste bin. Death Figure unknown, community intensifies search for bodies The actual figure of people killed from last week’s attack by bandits in Bawan Daji of Anka LGA remain uncertain, contrary to the official figure released by the authorities. Few hours after the incidence, the state police command announced that only three lives were lost, but the following day the figure were alleged to have risen to 15. The figure kept raising until last Friday when a first class Emir and the chairman Council of Chiefs in the state Alhaji Attahiru Ahmed, announced the number of dead as 30 when the state governor Abdulaziz Yari, accompanied by Senator Sani Yarima and many other dignitaries paid the royal father a condolence visit in his palace in Anka. From the account given by the emir, the figure he announces was not the final one as according to him, “Search for more casualties is still going on at the time I left after performing the burial rites of thirty bodies on ground,” he said. A local legislator who prefers anonymity, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that as at last Saturday 21 already decomposed bodies were discovered in the forest while on the following Sunday seven other bodies were discovered and as the search continues. Meanwhile, some of the local eyewitnesses in the area told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the number of casualties is far more than what was released to the media. One of the witness who simply call himself Salisu said he escaped death just by whiskers. “There are currently more twenty missing persons whose bodies are believed to be still in the forest”, lamenting people are afraid to go into the forest for fear of the bandits. He said already about 40 bodies were buried, expressing fear that the over twenty people missing were also killed by the group. Another witness who would not disclose his identity also claim that over 70 lives might have been lost to the bandits’ attack. He said the attack on his community was simultaneously launched for three days, and on each day lives were lost. He further narrated that many bodies were still scattered in the forest and “we are afraid to walk into the dreaded forest to collect their remains. The witness further narrated that the worst attack was on Thursday when many people gathered at the burial ground to bury the bodies of those killed the previous day when large number of people running for their lives were shot dead, while those who managed to escape into the forest were tracked and killed. “I am sure that the number of those killed would be more than seventy,” he claimed. Another witness, the Imam Mallam Umar, claimed that more than 60 lives were lost to the attack, he disclose that his community and the bandits held several peace dialogue to resolve whatever conflict. He said, “The bandits were known by everyone of us, and they often mix and move freely among us, appearing on market days.” Umar said he located and led the collection of over 20 bodies from the forest, stressing that so far as at Thursday afternoon after the attack, there were about 40 bodies on ground. According to him, “There are a lot of bodies left in the forest but we could not collectively move into the forest to search for bodies as the consequences could be very grave,” he laments. Emir of Anka weeps over deaths of subjects The Emir of Anka, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmed, who is the chairman, Zamfara council of chiefs, has last Friday in his palace publicly shed tears while narrating to Governor Yari, in the presence of top security officers, his painful feelings over the persistent attacks and killings of poor subjects of his emirate. The emir was frantic in expressing his frustrations and disappointment with the level of security by both the military and the police in protecting lives and the property of the people. He was speaking in his palace when Governor Yari, in company of Senator Yarima and senior security officers paid him a condolence visit over the recent attack in his emirate. The emir noted that poor peasants in state were no longer safe as it has become even risky for any person to report a suspicious element to the security, especially the police. He said once a patriotic individual reports any questionable person or movement, the issue often boomerangs against the innocent with the consequences of falling victim. “It appears and generally believe that the police and the criminals are allies,” the emir stated. The traditional ruler expressed the fears of his people on confidence of the security outfits deployed to the state, suggesting that if the combined security agents have failed to counter the lingering insecurity, particularly the armed banditry “there is urgent need to solicit for the assistance of forces from the United Nations or African Union to help end the worsening situation,” he stressed. Gov Yari Blames Security Agents Governor Abdulaziz Yari has expressed dissatisfaction with the combined security agents in their responsibilities of ensuring law and order and tackling the armed banditry in his state. He disclosed this during his condolence visit to the palace of Emir of Anka, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmed to commiserate with him and the people of his emirate over the recent attack and killings of several people by armed bandits. He said despite the huge financial and other logistic his government has, and is still committing to ensure the protection of lives and properties of citizens, “the menace of banditry and killings has continued unabated,” stressing that his government was always steadfast in doing what is responsible and even beyond its limit, all in an effort to motivate the security agents in the bid to stop the brutal attacks and killings of innocent citizens, “but regrettably the problem still remains”. Governor Yari reminded the combined security agents that the defiant armed bandits have not acquired any sophisticated training, and far less exposed as the military, and are far inferior compared to war tactics and experience, “but I wonder why the combined security forces seemed to have failed in this responsibility”. “I have always discuss it with some people, and even with Mr President that I am impressed with once a military office deployed to the state who diligently dared the bandits without collaboration with other security outfits and recorded encouraging success in dealing with the situation”, explaining that when the situation resurfaces after he left, “one finds it regretting that now with combined forces of military and the police, the problem is still reoccurring”. Governor regrets that it may sound shameful when just few days after the presidential visit to state with presidential instruction to the security to wake up to its responsibility in bringing the issue to an end, “there was an open attacks occurring  in sequence with no traces of security personnel to resist and suppress the criminal attack.” Police Commissioner Replies Gov Yari on order to shoot at sight Zamfara State commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has said the law does not permit the police to shoot and kill any suspect simply because he was seen carrying weapon such as rifle. The commissioner who disclosed this in the Galata Mafara personal residence of governor Yari, was apparently responding to governor Yari’s executive order that the police and other security personnel’s are free to shoot and kill on sight, anybody openly spotted handling rifle or other killer weapon suspected as a member of the armed bandits. Mr Kenneth explains that the duty of the police is to arrest, investigated and forward to court for prosecution of any person suspected to have been involved in or attempts to involve in a criminal act, “but we don’t have the powers to kill a suspect on sight”. He said the duty of the police, like any other constitutional provision, is guided by rules and regulations and any action contrary to the state law will not be lawfully proper to execute.