Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has explained why his administration will not impose or influence the selection of any traditional ruler in the state. Akeredolu who said the selection of any monarch is prerogative of the people of that community, noted that the duty of the government is just to approve the people’s choice. The governor made this known at the coronation ceremony and presentation of staff of office to the Kalasuwe of Apoiland, Oba (Prof.) Sunday Adejimola Amuseghan Lawe II at Methodist Primary School Playground, King City, Oboro community in Ese-Odo. Kalasuwe, a first class traditional title in the state and which stool became vacant 11 years ago following the demise Oba Samuel Adetimehin Oladiran, is in charge of Nine Apoi communities. At the event attended by the Deputy Governor, Hon. Agboola Ajayi, who is an indigene of Apoi, Akeredolu described the process that led to the selection of Amuseghan as Kalasuwe as flawless promising not to interfere in selection of any oba in the state. According to the Governor, “I am not interested in who becomes the king in any town. It is you people that will select who you want to be your king and it is our duty to approve your choice”. Akeredolu said he observed that the new monarch is a popular choice, stressing that his choice was devoid of any protest after his selection . He urged the New King to lead his people well. Akeredolu, however lauded the efforts of all the traditional rulers in the state in ensuring that peace reigns Supreme in their various domains. The governor said he based his commendation on the report of the members of the institute for security studies, who were in the state for a study tour. While reiterating his committed to building massive infrastructure in the southern Senatorial District, Akeredolu assured that the Sabomi , Okitipupa/ Ayeka-Irele roads will be completed soon. Other dignitaries at the event included Secretary to the State Government, Hon. Ifedayo Abegunde, Commissioner of Local Govenment and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mrs Lola Fagbemi, Commissoner for Land and Housing, Mr. Donald Ojogo, and Senator Yele Omogunwa.