The Kwara State police command yesterday confirmed that nine policemen were killed by armed robbers who attacked five banks in Offa on Thursday. The spokesman of the state police command, Ajayi Okasanmi (DSP) added seven civilians were also killed by the men of the underworld. V However, unconfirmed reports indicated that the casualty figure had risen to 23. There were also reports that the robbers, in their bid to escape from Kwara also killed two mobile policemen in Okuku, Osun state while they also reportedly abandoned three of their operational vehicles on the road. Angry residents and stakeholders are clamouring for a review of the security architecture for banks in Kwara state. More details of the gruesome attacks were beginning to unfold yesterday. One of the victims of the incident, it was gathered, was a pregnant business woman, identified as Omilola Korede. She was said to have gone to lodge a complaint over a transaction in one of the banks. She also reportedly went with her son and when the robbers came, they sprayed the two of them with bullets. She died with the pregnancy. Three other women who lost their lives to the attack have also been identified as Bunmi Mesan, Iya Muji and another one popularly called Mama the Big Club. A survivor of the attack, who said he hid somewhere inside one of the banks during the attack, was still in shock when he briefly shared his ordeal with newsmen. He said: “My brother, it is not something to recall or witness. I don’t even pray it for my enemies. It was a terrible moment with death looking at us; I still can’t talk much about it”. The Olofa of Offa, Oba Muftau Gbadamosi said  the destruction was too enormous that he could not say anything yet. Offa community itself was in sober mood yesterday as it was learnt that a colloquium on the community, earlier scheduled for today (Saturday) had to be put off till April 14th, following the incident. Also leaders of the community spent most of yesterday in consultations while a larger, all embracing meeting involving all indigenes of the town has been slated for April 29, 2018. The Emir of Ilorin  Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, has condemned the armed robbery attack, describing it as barbaric, disheartening and ungodly. He, however, urged clerics across the state to use the occasion of Friday jumat service to offer  special prayers for the nation especially Kwara state stressing that, “ My prayer has always being seeing a peaceful and prosperous state of harmony where live and property would be adequately guaranteed.” He admonished residents to be vigilant and security conscious in order to curb reoccurrence of such dastard act even as he prayed Allah to console the families of victims of the attack.