As Nigerians commemorate the fourth anniversary of the mass abduction of Chibok girls, Pastor Tunde Bakare has decried the continuous assault on the girl-child in the Nigeria, describing it as a clear indication that the nation is sick with a malady that needs to be diagnosed. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that the students of Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno  State, were abducted by the Boko Haram sect on April 14, 2014. While 107 have come back home, 113 are still in the hands of their abductors. On his part, Speaker Yakubu Dogara has urged the executive arm of the federal government to do all within its power to free the remaining girls in captivity. However,  Ahmad Salkida, a journalist with access to information on the terror group, Boko Haram, has claimed that only 15 of the remaining 113  girls are still alive. Pastor Bakare of the Latter Rain Assembly, Lagos, who was General Muhammadu Buhari’s running mate in the 2011 presidential election, made this comment during the Second Chibok Girls Annual Lecture in Abuja yesterday. He said the fact that the Dapchi schoolgirls’ abduction occurred four years after the Chibok incident and one year to elections, just as it was in the Chibok case, was evidence of an alarming national malady. “There is something wrong when a nation is twice beaten, yet never shy with respect to the safety and security of its girl-child. There is something undeniably wrong when the girl-child repeatedly becomes the bargaining instrument in negotiation deals between the government and terrorists. “There is something absolutely wrong when the girl child becomes a pawn in a political chess game in which the major political parties seek to score political points. “One of the key indicators of stability, or the lack thereof, in a nation is the state of its girl-child because she is often the most vulnerable in a destabilised polity. The problematic issues encountered by the girl-child in any society are symptoms of an underlying malady which must be diagnosed,” he said. The outspoken pastor described the day the Chibok schoolgirls were abducted as a dark chapter in the history of the nation which has cast a long shadow over the gains in girl-child education, particularly in Nigeria and West Africa. “We praise God who has, thus far, brought back alive a total of 107 of our daughters. I welcome our beautiful daughters back home and I congratulate their biological parents, the Bring Back Our Girls movement, the entire nation, and well-wishers around the world,” he said, even as he saluted all those who spoke out against the abduction. “Let me, therefore, use this opportunity to salute the courage of everyone who stood up to be counted in the global outcry that followed the heinous abduction of our Chibok girls. I salute our global village for holding on to the values of our shared humanity. I salute the Nigerian people across the nation for becoming co-parents of our precious daughters and, in so doing, affirming the African tenet that it takes a village to raise a child. I also salute the Nigerian military for the gallant role it has played in the past four years in the quest to bring back our girls.” He added that the abduction of the students in  Dapchi showed  that the dark chapter that was opened four years ago was still open and prayed for the safe return of Leah Sharibu and the other Chibok girls still in the hands of the insurgents. “The Nigerian government must do all that is necessary to bring her back alive. Our hearts go out to her parents and our prayers go out to her wherever she is at the moment,  and we affirm, in the spirit of hope that, very soon, we will see her safely returned to us,” he said. LEADERSHHIP Sunday recall that Miss Sharibu was not released along with the other Dapchi girls for refusing to convert to Islam. Speaking on the theme, ‘Towards a Just and Good Society: Renewing our Commitment to the Girl-Child in Nigeria,’ Bakare called on the nation to adopt the two principles of equality and  affirmative action in order to guarantee the girl-child equal protection under the law, and  to ensure that particular attention is accorded to the protection and preservation of the girl-child due to the historical injustices she has suffered. He called for cultural intervention that respects, protects and empowers the girl-child; a structural intervention to liberate the Nigerian woman and the Nigerian girl-child; a constitutional intervention with clearly spelt-out protective provisions for the Nigerian girl-child and leadership intervention to ensure that competent women are encouraged to participate in politics in the country. In her address, the chairperson of the event and first female northern senator, Najatu Bala-Mohammed, attributed the escalation of the crises in the North East to irresponsibility on the part of politicians and some military personnel in the country. “We all know what started Boko Haram. It was started in Borno by former Governor Ali Modu Sheriff. We have to look at the root cause before we proffer solutions. Sheriff armed and used them for his political ambition; he even made one of them a commissioner, but they became too powerful. “The military came in and cashed in, and they have turned the North East into a cash cow. Military budgets are unaccounted for. “Remember, Jonathan was spending N2 billion every day but there was no security; thousands of our people were slaughtered. And we also know that the Army, more than anything, in Borno and Yobe, has contributed to the so-called terrorism; it has become a multi-billion dollar industry,” she said. For the crises in the North East to abate, Bala-Mohammed called for a total overhaul of the military, indictment of people found guilty and the reviving of the Lake Chad.  Only 15 of the 113 Chibok girls still alive – Salkida A Nigerian journalist, Ahmad Salkida, has claimed that only 15 of the about 112 Chibok girls believed to be still in Boko Haram captivity are alive. Mr Salkida, who is believed to have access to credible sources within the terror group, made this disclosure yesterday on the fourth anniversary of the girls’ abduction. Salkida wrote extensively about the abductions on Twitter, partly as follows: “Today, my painstaking investigations on the #Chibokschoolgirls revealed that just a handful of the 113 #ChibokGirls are alive,” he wrote. “Many of the girls have died as a result of cross-fire and bombardments of the security forces that, no doubt, were intent on rescuing them. “I regret to state here that only 15 out of the 113 #Chibokgirls are alive today, based on my investigations in the last three months and we have already seen some of them in a video, which I exclusively obtained and was published on SR website. “What is the status of the remaining 15 girls as far as negotiations are concerned? My investigations also revealed that they are no longer under the control of #AbubakarShekau. According to sources, they are now ‘married’ and only their ‘husbands’ can decide their fates. “If they are divorced, or the men are killed, that is when Shekau’s decision takes precedence; and in this instance, since the girls have been indoctrinated, their leader has no right to negotiate for their release, no matter the ransom offered, reliable multiple sources said. “It will be unbearable to share the names of the 15 that are alive here; this is the responsibility of government. When I was involved, I regularly provided proof of life. Government must demand that to prove me wrong or stop negotiating for many of the girls that don’t exists. “The secrecy around the condition of the #ChibokGirls and, most recent, #DapchiGirls’ debacle by those involved is the reason people like me are out of the picture. The fact remains that under the present circumstances, there is NO room for peace settlement. “The way out for these girls is a military rescue or negotiate with individual captors to release their ‘wives’ in return for some kind of deal, but this will mean death to these fighters because the terror group now sees the girls as part of their own and must be protected. “How come there is little or no information about the girls and both the parents and campaigners are in the dark? Because government resists independent reporting of the crisis; most of the reports are choreographed and Nigerians are also not ready to hear the truth or stand by it.”  Dogara Calls For Rescue Of Remaining Chibok Girls, Leah Sharibu Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has expressed sadness that all the abducted girls have not been accounted for, while urging the executive to intensify efforts towards providing adequate security in schools across the country. He made this statement to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the abduction of Chibok schoolgirls. He also called on the executive to intensify efforts for the release of Leah Sharibu, the Dapchi girl who was not released along with other abductees, reportedly for refusing to renounce her faith. Hon Dogara said, “It is unfortunate that four years after, all of our daughters have still not been accounted for. This underpins the need to take swift action when such incidents occur and to provide adequate security, not on a temporary basis but permanently, so that such tragedies can be prevented. “Nigeria has an alarming number of children out of school and if we genuinely want to solve this challenge, then we must make our learning institutions as safe and secure as possible. “One can only imagine the amount of grief that parents whose daughters are yet to be rescued have to cope with on a daily basis. While we may offer words of support, the fact remains that nothing will put them in better spirits than to be reunited with their children.” Speaker Dogara called on President Muhammadu Buhari, as the father of the nation and commander-in-chief of the armed forces, to put an end to the parents’ sorrow by freeing their daughters from captivity, even as he called for the release of the remaining Dapchi student. “We must also remember Leah Sharibu and her remarkable bravery, and intensify efforts as a nation to bring her home. All others who were taken by these terrorists against their will must also be reunited with their people. The security of lives and property is the foremost function of government and we must fulfil this responsibility because the Constitution makes it binding upon us to do so. “We must ensure, as a nation, that attacks on schools and on our children are brought to an end; for there is no better way to safeguard the future than to guarantee access to education,” the speaker said, adding that the parliament would continue to seek their release. “We will not forget the Chibok girls and everything that they represent, and we in Parliament will not cease to push for their rescue,” he concluded.