I am not one of those who are indignated that President Muhammadu Buhari has bitten the bullet for the fifth time for power. It may be a record only him holds in the country and one that drips with either special love for power, country, self-actualisation or all rolled together, yet the leadership aspirations fall within the bounds of both his inalienable and constitutional rights. Though he has violated such rights of ours to have a leader of our choosing with the barrel of the gun, we have since dealt with our loss. However, I am sure Buhari understands or will understand that his desire for political power, which we first noticed way back 1983, when he muscled his way to power as a military officer, brushing aside former President Shehu Shagari, elected in that year’s general election, is a story, the end of which must come in 2023. My bigger worry, as the president challenges for power again, is that he is no longer a spring chicken. If he gets re-elected by next year, he would be few months adrift 80 by the time he would be vacating office in 2023. Old age comes with ravages. Mid-June, 2015, while attending the 25th African Union summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, his first, he confessed that the ravages of old age would hobble him in government. “I wish I became head of state when I was a governor, just a few years as a young man. Now at 72, there is a limit to what I can do,” he told Nigerians living in South Africa. This was a straight-talk, yet there abounds those who would throw both tantrums and punches to prove that old age has rather been the president’s strongest enabler. In spite of the direction some of his sidekicks may think, we, the everyday people, have seen and the president himself can testify that presiding over Nigeria guts every fibre in his being. Since he assumed office, sickness has knocked him down with a frequency and intensity he confesses he has never known before in his life. Let’s return to his Johannesburg straight-talk. As an employee, if my newly-employed 72-year-old staff comes to me and confesses that age would hobble him in carrying out his job description and I manage to ignore and abide him and at 76 when his service period expires, he comes keenly to me for a renewal of his appointment, I will hazard some quick guesses: First, I would wonder perhaps if he has been growing younger. Second, that perhaps he thinks I have no option. Third, that I may be stupid. I will, however, renew his appointment and allow all these thoughts fade into futility if I am convinced by his performance outcomes that he has been my best employee on the job. Over the years, integrity has defined the Buhari identity but I am worried as to where to locate his 2011 promise to do just one tenure if elected and his 2014 reinforcement of that promise to leaders of his All Progressives Congress, (APC) as disclosed last year by Aisha Alhassan, his minister of Women Affairs. “In 2014/2015, he said he was going to run for only one term to clean up the mess that the (previous) PDP government did in Nigeria. And I took him for his word that he is not contesting in 2019,” the minister disclosed to Reuters. In making his about-face on Monday, the president said he did so in response to public demand. But the action evokes a deja vu, which is all too fresh. I recall that in 2014, when former President Goodluck Jonathan’s body language began to point in the direction of readiness for a shot at another term and with his eventual declaration of interest, he was confronted by worried party members from the North with an agreement he had in principle with them in 2011 that he would not seek re-election but back a northern candidate in his PDP to take over from him. As president, whenever Jonathan spoke on this agreement, he prevaricated. It took Segun Adeniyi’s efforts in his book, “Against the Run of play: How an incumbent President was defeated in Nigeria,” for Jonathan to own up to the existence of the agreement, but then, he had contested and lost to Buhari. Jonathan was quoted in the book as having said that  “… You can make a political promise and change your mind, so long as it is within the law.” My worry does not have much to do with the semblances in the Buhari and Jonathan promises on tenure, as it has with my fear that the Buhari declaration came a trifle early in the day. Jonathan even waited till November 2014 to declare his intension. We are witnesses to the fact that a president’s second term declaration brings a contagion of politicking in the polity and a tragedy of a halt on governance. Where governance is prime, such a declaration is timed when it will be innocuous. I am also worried that the Nigerian stock market crashed, consequent upon the president’s declaration. The market lost a handsome N150billion on Monday, crashing to a three month’s low as the news of the president’s second term declaration broke out. What this means is that the declaration filled the hearts of investors with trepidation, resulting in their withdrawal of their investments from the system. President Buhari rode to power on the wings of goodwill, I therefore cannot wrap my head around this paradox and honestly wish the crash was a happenstance and not a corollary. I am not here to market or demarket the president. My outlook is that the prime consideration that should inform our choice to either renew his mandate or not, should anchor on our convictions that his tenancy in Aso Rock has either put smiles on our faces or misery in our hearts and not on second party narratives from minions or foes. Let it not be informed by treatise such as Femi Adesina’s “2019: Let the others simply run away” or any APC’s scorecard from Kola Ologbodiyan. Any Nigerian, who has lived in this country since May 29, 2015, would have either felt enough arrows or goodies from the Buhari government to make an informed personal decision with his or her vote in 2019. If you take stock and conclude that your life has been bettered, give him your mandate which he seeks, if not, pay no heed to any talk that there is no better option. It is moonshine! 