The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has begun investigation into alleged theft of N18.08 billion of Sokoto and Kano states funds by former Governors Magatakarda Wamakko and Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso respectively.  LEADERSHIP gathered that while Wamakko is being investigated for allegedly diverting N15 billion Sokoto State funds, Kwankwaso is under the anti-graft agency’s radar for alleged embezzlement of N3.08 billion belonging to the 44 council areas of Kano State. The investigation of the duo that are both high-ranking members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and current senators, followed petitions separately forwarded to the commission. Findings by LEADERSHIP revealed that the EFCC received petition from a group, Movement for the Liberation and Emancipation of Sokoto State, accusing Senator Wamakko of alleged theft and money laundering. Surajo Saidu and Mudassir Umar Alhassan who are chairman and secretary respectively, of the group, signed the petition which was dated 10th August, 2015. The group accused Senator Wamakko who served as governor of Sokoto State from 2007 to 2015 of allegedly converting some funds meant for the development of the state into personal use. An EFCC source told our correspondent that during investigation that the agency traced N1.5 billion cash deposit into Senator Wamakko’s account. “The deposits were done by three individuals suspected to be officials of Sokoto State Government House who are yet to be traced by the Commission,” the source said. Our source said the monies were deposited between 2012 and 2015 and noted that the commission would invite Senator Wamakko for questioning ‘any moment from now’. The commission, it was further gathered, also received a petition from Barr Mustapha Danjuma on behalf of Abubakar Ali Maishani and Alhaji Najume Garba Kabo against Senator Kwankwaso for allegedly diverting funds belonging to the 44 local governments of Kano State. A competent EFCC source disclosed that during investigation, the commission discovered vouchers that indicated that each of the 44 local government areas contributed N70 million for Kwankwaso’s presidential aspiration. Our source said investigation is ongoing to trace the account into which the funds were deposited. He confirmed that very soon the commission would invite the former governors for questioning. However, the spokesman of EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren told our correspondent on phone that the two former governors are under investigation. “I am aware that both Senators Wamakko and Kwankwaso are being investigated following petitions accusing them of financial sleaze.”