The managing director, Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed, has disclosed that farmers yield is about to increase by over 40 per cent with NIRSAL’s productivity enhancing technology and practices for small holder farmers in Nigeria. At a signing ceremony for a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in Abuja between NIRSAL and Swiss giant; Syngenta Agrochemical Company, Mr. Aliyu said the partnership would engender increased production, particularly for small holder farmers by linking them to quality inputs, access to modern technology and training on the best use of farm inputs to achieve the highest possible yields. Syngenta is a global brand in the development and production of seeds and crop protection with global sales in excess of $13.4 billion (approx. N4.2trillion) and have footprints in over 90 countries, including 26 in Africa. The partnership according to him is designed to ensure basic business management, end to end agronomy, crop protocols and safe and effective use of crop protection products. It will also encompass a wide range of support such as improving seed yields, teaching best practices and providing effective capacity building to farmers and other stakeholders in ensuring optimal productivity. In his word, “Our farmers need simple and reliable ways to maximize yield and the thrust is to create integrated tailored solutions. These combined with advanced crop protection science, quality seeds delivering higher yields and agronomic advice based on our deep insights into how smallholder farmer work can increase farmers yield by over 39 per cent. “This formula have been tested, validated and adopted across the globe and in African countries like South Africa, Kenya and Morocco.” On the modalities for implementation and monitoring, Aliyu said the facility will be enjoyed by all small scale farm holders particularly those under the Central Bank’s Anchor Borrowers Programme and other primary producers across the 36 states and the FCT.  In his response, the African Regional Director for Syngenta, Mr. Luzius Caviezel said Africa is important to the company and Nigeria is on the priority list especially with the level of openness for innovation that the government has shown. He noted that part of the purpose for the MoU was to support the food security which he referred to as a big challenge as well as an opportunity, saying, they have reeled out similar initiative in other African countries where farmer yield increased by over 30 per cent. “We have realised that we can not go this journey alone, we have a great vision, but we need to collaborate with successful companies and share the passion and vision. Am a farmer and I can understand what it means to have a good yield,” he said.