The Senator representing Taraba South Senatorial Zone at the National Assembly, Emmanuel Bwacha, has flagged off the rehabilitation of 36.5 kilometers Wukari -Ibi road, which is expected to gulp N1 billion. Bwacha, while flagging off the rehabilitation of the road yesterday in Wukari, explained that the project, which was approved jointly by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and that of Power, Works and Housing as a rural road project, had its funds appropriated in the 2017 and 2018 budgets. The senator commended the executive arm of the federal government for its commitment in infrastructural development. Bwacha, who is also the Senate Deputy Minority Leader, charged the people of the community to cooperate with the contractor,  Moulds Nigeria Ltd to ensure the project is completed in six weeks  as scheduled. While commenting on the security situation in the country, Bwacha noted that the statement made by President Muhammadu Buhari in London that those attacking Nigerians were Libyans trained by Gadaffi, was a confirmation of his earlier stance on the issue. “We take the last statement of the President in the United Kingdom to mean that he has now seen the reality of the time. “All other statements he made on the issue in the past were falsehood fed to him by some of his aides who do not mean well for Nigeria. “Now that he has finally gotten the true picture of what is happening in Nigeria today as far as insecurity is concerned, someone must lose his job if the President wants Nigerians to take him serious. “How come militia from the magreb is penetrating our borders? What is the Comptroller, Immigration doing and how come our borders are so porous and people are coming into the country to kill Nigerians? We need answers to these questions,” he said. Bwacha also announced to his constituents that work on the abandoned Akwana Mobile Police Barack, which he initiated years ago as a House of Representatives member, would soon resume as N1.3bn had been appropriated in the 2018 budget before the national assembly. He said when completed, the barrack would help in checking the security situation on the fringes of the Taraba/Benue border. Speaking at the occasion, Gov Darius Ishaku of Taraba commended Bwacha for influencing the road rehabilitation project for the benefit of the people. Represented by the commissioner of Works, Mr Tafarki Agbadu, Ishaku also commended FG for approving funds for the project. He appealed to the FG to refund N32 billion the state government had spent on construction of federal roads so far to enable his government embark on other projects. In his comments, Mr Samuel Oyafami, the director of Moulds Nig Ltd, the company handling the contract, said the road was first constructed in 1974 and has not undergone full rehabilitation apart from minor maintenance. Oyafami said his company would restore the road to its original shape within record time. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that Bwacha later proceeded to Jandeikyula village, near Wukari where armed militia recently killed  32 people to commiserate with families of the victims.