 The governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has enjoined Christians in Nigeria and the world over to emulate the virtues of love and sacrifice which characterised   the life of Jesus Christ. In a message signed by the party’s national publicity secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, the party stressed that these qualities are essential to the unity that Nigeria earnestly needs at this time. The party also gave assurance that the APC-led administration was determined to ensure the safe release of all persons still in captivity and the return of peace especially to the North East. “In line with the true essence of Easter, the party urges Christians to take cognizance of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the Cross of Cavalry for our sins.  PDP Urges Prayers, Hope The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged Nigerians to use the occasion of this year’s Easter to pray for the nation and rededicate themselves to the ideals of national unity, cohesion and peaceful coexistence. PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement msde available to journalists yesterday in Abuja, said the nation had witnessed  a lot of anguish  including the economic recession and gruesome bloodletting of the last three years, but noted that with the right leadership, coupled with unity and dedication by the citizens, the nation will surely come out of the present problems. It said, “Indeed, Easter which marks the resurrection Jesus Christ from the dead offers us a unique lesson in the ultimate triumph of life over death, good over evil, love over hatred, truth over falsehood, hope over despair and unity over strife. “The PDP therefore urges Nigerians to, in the spirit of the season, eschew all divisiveness, forgive and show love to one another as exemplified in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. “In the same vein, we urge all elected and appointed leaders at all levels across the country  to also reflect on the season and rededicate themselves to service for the good of all.” The PDP urged Nerians not to despair as the party was gearing up to rescue the nation from the current misrule. The party, therefore, wished all Nigerians happy Easter celebration.  Ohanaeze Asks Nigerians To Intensify Prayers The president-general of the umbrella Igbo organisation, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo has urged Nigerians, particularly Ndigbo, to use this period of Easter to intensify their prayers for peace in the country Nwodo, in an Easter message, urged Nigerians not to allow the prevailing hardship in the country to affect their spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence. The Ohanaeze remarked that the country was under siege from all sides and  said that the period of Easter provides a good opportunity for Nigerians to pray more to God to send succour to alleviate their sufferings. Nwodo urged Nigerians to use this year’s Easter festivities to engender the spirit of oneness and also re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national development. “Nigerian Christians must allow the solemnness of the last 40 days of fasting and prayers to influence their thoughts and actions in relating with one another,” he said.  Mark Preaches Peace, Forgiveness The immediate past president of the Senate, Senator David Mark, has again called on Nigerians to live in peace and harmony with each other in order to create an enabling environment for development. He craved for a harmonious relationship between and among adherents of various religions saying, “We have more to gain staying together as a people with a common destiny.” Senator Mark , in a goodwill message to Nigerians to commemorate this year’s Easter celebration yesterday,  expressed worry that the unabating upheavals and violent crimes across the country portend a threat to the future of the country. Senator Mark, in apparent reference to cases of kidnaping, abduction and killings by criminal elements in parts of the country, said the issues raise serious concern to every right thinking member of the society. To this end, Senator Mark urged the federal government to take a critical look at the clarion calls by Nigerians for the review of the security apparatuses as well as the restructuring of the polity. Such a review or restructuring, he submitted, should however be anchored on fairness, equity and justice, and done in a manner that will give every section of the nation a sense of belonging.  Secondus Calls For Prayer For The Nation’s Democracy The national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has urged Nigerians to use the period of Easter to reflect on the situation in the country and pray specially for the survival of her democracy. Prince Secondus said in an Easter message to mark the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead that the nation’s democracy was, more than ever before since 1999, under heavy stress that needs all hands to be on deck for its survival. The PDP boss said in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Ike Abonyi, that the nation’s democracy was under pressure and required only truth and sincerity of purpose from critical stakeholders to survive. Prince Secondus urged the nation’s leaders to stand up for the truth and save the country from deteriorating. The PDP boss specifically commended some of the nation’s elder statesmen like former presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babangida, and former defence  minister, General Theophilus Danjuma, for speaking the truth about the state of the nation, saying that truth and nothing else can set the nation free. “Indicators are apparent that the country is under siege and Nigerians should use this solemn period of Easter to pray for God to intervene and raise good leaders for the country”, he said. Prince Secondus advised the APC-led federal government to imbibe the spirit of tolerance and shun all undemocratic tendencies that heighten tension in the land.  Pray For Leah Sharibu, CAN Urges Christians The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) , Borno State chapter, has urged Christians all over the country and the world to use this season of Easter to pray for the quick release of the only Christian Dapchi schoolgirl still in the custody of Boko Haram terrorists. The body also appealed to the federal government to hasten the process leading to the possibie release of the girl, even as it urged the president to apply the same strategy it used  in securing the release of the 104 returned Dapchi schoolgirls for the release of Miss Sharibu. This was contained in an Easter message made available to LEADERSHIP Sunday by the chairman of CAN, Borno State chapter and the general overseer of the Pentecost Believers Covenant Church (PBCC), Maiduguri, Bishop Mohammed Naga yesterday in Maiduguri, the state capital. LEADERSHIP SUNDAY recalls that Boko Haram had released 104 schoolgirls out of the 110 girls it had abducted from the Government Science and Technical College, Dapchi,  Yobe State, while holding Sharibu back reportedly for refusing to convert to Islam. The fate of the other five is unclear, but there are reports they may have died. “We urge government, both federal and Yobe State, to  hasten the possibility of releasing the young girl who truly knows who Christ is .Since they said we are one and that there is freedom of religion, let her also be considered and be released like her school mates,” Bishop Naga said.  Female Presidential Aspirant Asks FG To Negotiate Leah Sharibu’s Release A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  presidential aspirant, Prof. Mercy Adesanya-Davies, has appealed to the federal government to  negotiate the release of the Dapchi schoolgirl, Leah Sharibu. Adesanys-Davies made the appeal in her  Easter message to Nigerians. The presidential hopeful quoted Khadija Grema, one of the freed girls, who said that “Leah was not released because she is a Christian and she refused to put on hijab or convert,” and called for her release.  Senator Uchendu Urges Christians To Emulate Christ’s Selfless Service To Humanity The senator representing Rivers East in the National Assembly, Senator Andrew Igbonule Uchendu, has urged Christians to emulate Jesus Christ’s selfless service to humanity as portrayed by his life on earth Uchendu, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt by his media aide, Solomon Nnam Okocha, said the current challenges facing the country would be tackled when citizens strive to render Christ-like service to the nation. The senator said, “In this season that represents love, sacrifice and charity to mankind, it is my sincere wish that Christians would begin to show greater commitment of selfless service to our fatherland and to each other. “Let us draw inspiration from Christ, who even though he is divine, chose to live an ordinary life just to serve humanity, even unto death. In the same vein, our traditional, religious and political leaders must set aside earthly desires and inordinate ambitions for the greater good of the people.”  Let Us Promote Harmony In Communities- el-Rufai Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, has called on the people of the state to do their best to promote peace and harmony in communities and to reject strife in the land. In his Easter message to the Christian community in Kaduna State, the governor said for more than 2,000 years, Easter has symbolised the triumph of hope over despair and an affirmation that darkness cannot trump the plans and wishes of Almighty God. El-Rufai said:” On behalf of myself and all the good people of Kaduna State, we seize this opportunity to felicitate with our brothers and sisters of the Christian community for a peaceful observance of the season of Lent ending with the great feast of Easter which celebrates the victory of Jesus Christ over death. “This festival of triumph follows the holy season of Lent, during which the Christian community engaged in fasting, prayers and works of charity. As people of faith, let us continue to practise in our daily lives the lessons of sacrifice, care for the poor, deep spiritual reflection and love for all humankind, irrespective of tribe or religion, observed during the fasting”.  Be Law Abiding, Gov Ugwuanyi Urges Nigerians As Christians celebrate Easter to mark the resurrection of Jesus Christ for the salvation of mankind, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has felicitated with the people of the state, Christian faithful and indeed all Nigerians for their abiding faith in God and commitment to peace, unity and progress of the country, in line with the spirit of the occasion. In his Easter message, Governor Ugwuanyi noted that “the 40 days of fasting, praying and charity, which reinvigorated the spiritual strength of Christians to gain salvation and receive the amazing grace of God, call for celebration and sustained faith in God”. While wishing the people of Enugu State and Nigerians a happy Easter celebration, the goVernon urged them to remain committed to virtues that promote peace, unity and progress, reiterating his resolve to continue to serve with the fear of God, in keeping with his firm belief that “Enugu State is in the hands of God”.  Easter, A Period Of Renewal, Hope – Gbenga Daniel Former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, has urged Christians to use the Easter period as that of reflection and renewed sense of hope and possibilities.In his Easter message to Nigerians, Otunba Daniel stated that Easter is a period when people reflect and renew their covenant with God because Jesus Christ rose from the dead to give mankind hope, courage, confidence, renewal and new life. “After the 40-day Lenten period, we must all be renewed and transformed and, in turn, renew and transform others. “As a nation with renewed hope, the relevance of Easter is that it gives us the assurance that we can overcome the challenges that we face, put an end to the destruction of lives and property and turn our backs to all moral ills,” he said.