President Muhammadu Buhari has requested the House of Representatives to input the sum of N151, 394, 421, 335.00 in the 2018 Appropriation Bill, which is currently being considered by the National Assembly. This, according to the President is part of the $1 billion approved to be released and utilised from the Excess Crude Account by the National Economic Council in December 2017. The president, in a letter dated April 13, 2018, noted he granted an anticipatory approval for the release of the fund, for the purchase of a Super Tunaco Aircraft under the direct Government-to-government arrangement with the United States of America. According to the letter, the anticipatory approval was granted in expectation that the National Assembly would not object to the purchase of the specialised aircraft.
The president, who said that Nigeria had for a number of years been in discussions with the United States government for purchase of the Aircraft, explained that the approval was finally granted by the United States government, but with a deadline within which part payment must be made, otherwise, the contract would lapse. However, members of the House of Representatives yesterday threatened to impeach the president over the anticipatory approval. The members alleged that the payment was done in clear breach of the constitution.
Speaker of the House, Yakubu Dogara had after a two hours executive session of the House read the president’s communications to his colleagues. “In the expectation that the National Assembly would have no objection to the purchase of this highly specialised Aircraft, which is critical to national security, I granted anticipatory approval for the release of $496, 374, 470. This was paid directly to the Treasury of the United States Government. I am therefore writing, seeking approval of the House for the sum of $496, 374, 470 (Equivalent to N151, 394, 421, 335.00) to be included in the 2018 Appropriation Bill, which the National Assembly is currently finalising. The balance of the requirements for critical operational equipment is still being collated from the different security services, and will be presented in the form of supplementary Appropriation Bill, in due course,” the letter reads in part. In a swift reaction to the letter, chairman, House Committee on Public Accounts, Hon. Kinsley Chinda, raised a point of order, alleged that the President by his letter admitted to have contravention the provisions of Section 80 and 81 of the constitution. According to Chinda, there is no language of anticipatory approval as claimed by the president in the constitution. “Mr. Speaker, this section bothers on finances and control of the public funds. There is no language of anticipatory approval. The letter you have entered just read to us talk about anticipatory approval. What if we fail to approve, what happens? Is the parliament a rubber stamp. Today it is as if the watchdog can only bark but can’t bite, not only that we can’t bite, we are seen to be sleeping,” Chinda said. He however urged the House to reply the President’s letter by pointing out the breach of constitution and make the president face the consequences.
“This is an example of what has been happening in the system, there is no excuse, however how beautiful. It is an impeachable offence. Let us not continue to sleep. I recommend that we should commencement impeachment on the president,” he stated. Also, the member representing Yagba East/Yagba West/Mopa-murofederal constituency of Kogi state, Hon Sunday Karimi supported Chinda’s arguments.
Karimi noted that the President, by his actions treated the parliament with clear disregard. Chairman House Committee on Rules and Business, Emmanuel Oker-Jev, cautioned that debate on the subject matter was not appropriate as it was not properly slated for deliberation. Oker-Jev urged his colleagues to reserve their submissions until when the matter is properly listed for discourse on the floor of the House. Meanwhile, Dogara in ruling noted that the matter will be properly slated for debate
‎The Speaker who cited Order 2 rule 1 of the House, said the letter is asking for appropriation. But said the standard procedure is to slate it for deliberation. “I suggest that we operate within the rules. We should follow the rules as they are so that we can get the result that we want. For some of us who are lawyers, breach of procedure is as grievous as breach of substantive law, for some of us who are lawyers,” Dogara stated.