The Senate has summoned the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Lawal Daura, to appear before it within next seven days to give explanations on security investigation of the criminal invasion on the National Assembly on Wednesday. The Red Chamber also confirmed yesterday that it has received from the Police, the mace which was snatched by thugs during the invasion on National Assembly. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that the Senate had on Wednesday issued  24- hour ultimatum for the Police  and DSS to produce the snatched mace. However, the police yesterday announced that it recovered the stolen mace in an area in Abuja following alert from a passerby.  The police team led by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) operations, Habila Joshak visited the National Assembly yesterday and handed over the recovered mace to the Clerk, Sani Omolori. The deputy president of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, made the confirmation in his opening address at the plenary, yesterday.  Ekweremadu, however, stated that the Senate would be insistent that the suspects be arrested and prosecuted, wondering how the thugs beat the security operatives on duty, and successfully invaded the Senate Chamber. Senate maintained that the affront on the Senate must not go unpunished.  While summoning the two security chiefs, during plenary, Ekweremadu noted that as ugly and provocative as the attack was, it soothes that the entire nation and the world stood together in total condemnation of the ugly drama, brigandage and desecration of the National Assembly by those, who he noted, hold themselves above the laws and institutions of the country. He said,  “Nevertheless, we believe that there should be consequence for bad behaviour. We swore to uphold the laws of the Federal Republic and the principles of democracy.  “It still beats the imagination of Nigerians and the civilised world that the attackers passed through the several security checks and barriers into the National Assembly and the inner recesses of this chamber and also escaped with the mace into thing air despite the well-known fortified surroundings of this parliament. “Therefore, we hold that it will be a detour to the state of nature where life was lawless and brutish if what happened yesterday is allowed to go unpunished or to be swept under the carpet. It will never happen. We will get to the roots of the matter. “We call on the Inspector General of Police and Director-General of the State Security Service to ensure that all those who plotted, aided, abetted, and executed this dastardly affront on our democracy and belittled Nigeria before the international community be brought to book to serve as a deterrent to others. We will be inviting them next week to brief us on the state of the investigations”. Police Recover Stolen Mace Under Abuja Bridge Meanwhile, the Nigeria Police Force said yesterday that it recovered the stolen Mace from the National Assembly at a point under the flyover before the City Gate where a patriotic passer-by saw it and alerted the police. The Mace was recovered after the deployed police teams engaged in massive raids of identified criminal spots, flashpoints, engaged in stop and search operations, visibility and confidence building patrols, intelligence gathering which forced the suspected miscreants to abandon the Mace. The Assistant Force PRO,  SP Aremu Adeniran,  who confirmed this in a statement,  said, “Sequel to the invasion of the Senate Chambers of the National Assembly, Federal Republic of Nigeria on April 18, 2018 by some suspected thugs who disrupted the Senate Plenary Session and carted away the Mace of the Red Chambers, the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris NPM, immediately instituted a high-powered Police Investigation and Intelligence Team coordinated by the IGP Monitoring Unit of the Force and further directed a total lock-down of the Federal Capital Territory with intense surveillance patrol and thorough Stop and Search Operations at various police check-points with a view to arresting perpetrators and possible recovery of the stolen Mace. “The police teams engaged in massive raids of identified criminal spots/flashpoints, stop and search operations, visibility and confidence building patrols, intelligence gathering which forced the suspected miscreants to abandon the Mace at a point under the flyover before the City Gate, where a patriotic passer-by saw it and alerted the police.” He further stated: “While a discreet investigation into the incident is still ongoing to arrest and bring the perpetrators to justice, the Nigeria Police Force appreciates the spirited members of the public, most especially motorists within Abuja Metropolis for their support, cooperation and timely information during the rigorous stop and search operations for the recovery of the Mace. “The renewed commitment of the Nigeria Police Force to guarantee protection of lives and property, peace and stability and sustain democracy in the country remains unequivocal and unwavering.”