 A gang of armed robbers yesterday invaded commercial banks in Offa, Kwara State, killing some people, including policemen, complainants, bank customers and market people. The men of the underworld also  reportedly carted away unspecified amount of money in different currencies. It was learnt that the bandits, who operated for about an hour, entered the town around 4:45pm and operated till about 5:40pm as they first reportedly blocked roads from both Ilorin and Osogbo ends. They were said to have escaped through Igosun, a neighbouring community with their loot . It was also gathered that the armed bandits first approached the Offa divisional police station on entering the ancient town, killing policemen on duty among other people at the station, before raiding the commercial banks and killing people by shooting them on the head. Among the policemen killed by the armed robbers that reportedly operated in commando style, was a man identified as Pelemo, who was expected to retire in few months and a pregnant police woman. An eyewitness said that corpses of six policemen were taken away in his presence, while efforts were being made to bring out others inside the police station. It was also gathered that the bandits, who numbered about 15, came in different vehicles as they stationed themselves at strategic areas of the town, as it was reported that they also snatched commercial motorcycles to operate and escape. The spokesman of the state police command, Ajayi Okasanmi, who confirmed the bank raid, said that victims included policemen and other individuals. He said that details of the bank robbery would be made after a full investigation on the incident. Meanwhile, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed in a Facebook post last night said he was very saddened by the tragic events at Offa yesterday. ”Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who died in the armed robbery attack in the town today. “I am in constant touch with the security agencies in the state and have urged them to do all within their power to secure Offa and environs and bring the perpetrators to justice. “I have also directed the health services to rapidly deploy emergency services to treat those injured in the attack. My heartfelt condolences to the people of Offa and the families of victims of today’s attack,” he said.