The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that it will work with the Borno state government to provide healthcare services to the internally Displaced persons (IDPs) in their respective Communities following their return. WHO also said that it will expand its various humanitarian assistance such as vaccination and survellance to trapped persons in all the inaccessible areas of the state through the help of the security agencies. The WHO Director General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus stated this when he led three Regional Directors and three Deputy Regional Directors of WHO on courtesy visit on Borno State Governor , Kashim Shettima at Government House in maiduguri, the Borno state capital. Dr Ghebreyesus said inview of the humanitarian assistance that has been going on in the state by team of WHO , he and his entourage visited the state to get first hand informaton and see how they can further support the state in tackling some of the health challenges caused by the years of insurgency. The first African to be made DG of WHO appreciated the level with which peace has returned to the state, adding that the Borno state government has tried much on infrastructural develpment as seen in the capital city , not withstanding the crisis that bedeviled the state “We are here to see situations on ground. As we all know, this region was thoroughly battered by insurgency, but at the same time, we are glad to see that it is better now, although we still have some challenges and that is why we came to visit you to hear some issues you have and to see how best we can help and support you. ” We choose Nigeria to have high level meeting which focus on major strategies, but I will like to underline here that we will support this region.We will extend our healthcare services to the internally Displaced persons (IDPs) even after returning to their Communities since government has started the process. ” Our survellance and immunization activities will be extended to reach those trapped in some hard to reach Communities. The same will be done to returnee iDPs to ensure that they live a healthy life while in their ancestral homes. Finally , we are with you. we will support and help you in any possible way,.” the DG WHO assured Shettima. Responding, Governor Kashim Shettima thanked the WHO Director General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and his other Directors for finding time to visit the state. Governor Shettima who was represented by his Deputy,Usman Mamman Durkwa appreciated the contributions made by WHO to the health needs of Borno citizens admist the crisis period and urged WHO to continue to do more, especially now that the IDPs are returning back home. The WHO DG also visited the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai Alamin El-kanemi and interacted with him before proceeding to the NYSC IDPs camp where he addressed the displaced persons before departing.