The Special Adviser to Rivers State Governor on Political Matters and Strategy, Chief Emeh Glory Emeh, has declared that there is no alternative to Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike in the 2019 governorship election in the state. Emeh, who disclosed this in a chat with LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt said with the governor’s enough preparation for future elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will still take over the Government House in 2019. He said, “He has adequately prepared himself to do that and what we are waiting for is a question of time. I have told people severally that there is no alternative to Wike. So if we don’t have alternative to Wike, you can by extrapolation, say that 2019 is fait accompli for PDP under the leadership of Wike. “Wike has prepared himself for future elections in the state and what you will expect from a man who has prepared himself for an examination is a result. Some people may expect a pass but at least he has worked himself to earn distinction.” Emeh, who is a one-time Chief of Staff, Government House, Port Harcourt, stated that several groups and ethnic nationalities have been calling on Wike to run for a second term in office, pointing out that it is the governor’s constitutional right to seek reelection after his first tenure. The governor’s aide said, “Many people have said so but as the governor’s Special Adviser on Political Matters and Strategy, I will not talk much on that. Like I said, everybody that has come; last week we had the Committee of Rivers Patriots, we have had Rivers Elders Consultative Council, we have had National Association of Rivers Daughters, we have had people from Ogoni, people from Ikwerre, people from Engenni. “We have had the Ibanis, the Etche and Omuma axis, the Ekpeyes, Orashi, Rivers women, we have had all of them come to Government House, to say, Governor, you have done very well, we will wish that you present yourself for a second term in office. As you know, second term in office is his constitutional right. The constitution provides for him to do two terms of four years each.” Emeh, who dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) in December 2017 for the PDP, said he left the party because it was not organised, all his efforts to make the leader of APC in the state, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, address the issues he raised did not succeed. He said, “Several times I used to tell them either during our meeting here or in Abuja. APC has a nine-member caucus and I was one and they have 92-member leadership and I was also one. “So, I know the party upside down and I took a decision to leave the party after several warnings to the leader, Rotimi Amaechi, that the party is not organised and also, to my younger friend, Dakuku Adol Peterside, that these are the problems of the party and that I will leave. They thought that I was joking.”