Stakeholders in the All Progressives Congress (APC) Katsina State under the aegis of Concerned APC Members Forum, yesterday, urged the national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, to prevent the protest of President Muhammadu Buhari’s in-law, Abubakar Ismaila Isa, following the APC primaries in the state from resulting in the party’s defeat in the forthcoming presidential and governorship polls. The forum, in a statement titled: “A Call For Caution,” dated December 17, 2018, addressed to the APC chair and copied to the President, hinted that only the intervention of Oshiomhole in “the Katsina crisis to save the party from further crisis and imminent loss in 2019 polls,” saying “a stich in time saves nine.” The Aliyu Sani Mohammed-led forum, which has Yakubu Suleiman and Iliyasu Mohammed Runka, as secretary and legal adviser respectively, further posited that, “Withdrawal of the pending court case filed by Abubakar Ismaila Isa and genuine reconciliation of the affected parties should be done immediately.” The group is more than convinced that the APC chairman possesses the right leadership, dignity, integrity, and negotiating skills to tackle the arduous task. “We are critical stakeholders in Katsina State APC with keen interest in ensuring fair play and inclusiveness of all members of the party. We wish to call your attention to the political brouhaha that is rearing its ugly head in Katsina State APC. The APC in Katsina State is in serious disarray as a result of the faction created by a member from Funtua senatorial district, who incidentally, was one of the gubernatorial candidates in 2015 but lost to the incumbent Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari. “The grudge of the aspirant which resulted to his filing a case at the Federal High Court Katsina challenging the primaries election that produced Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari is rather unfortunate and is capable of disintegrating the party. “This problem, if left unchecked, will affect the fortunes of the party in the forthcoming elections including the presidential poll. To this end, we urge you to intervene,” the group stated.  