Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, yesterday said that Nigeria’s crude oil production is expected to increase from current average of 2 million barrels per day to 2.5 million barrels per day by the end of 2019. He also disclosed that the country intends to further grow it to 3mbd by 2020. According to him, the county’s crude oil reserves is expected to hit 40billion barrels by 2020 raising from its current 37.2 billion barrels. Kachikwu made this known at the ministry’s presentation of three years key achievements and staff award ceremony in Abuja. He stated that a number of new green filed discoveries such as the Owowo field in deep water OML 139 with an estimated 1 billion barrels of crude reserves, the Egina FPSO which is expected to commence production of 200,000 barrels per day very soon as well as sustain exploration activities in Chad Basin and Benue Trough as sources expected to expand the nation’s production capacity. In terms of gas to power utilization, the minister said, the target remains to increase domestic gas monetization from the current 1.2 billion square cubic feet (bscf) to 5bscf in 2020. On the downstream sector, Kachikwu insisted that only liberalisation can salvage the sector stressing that it is the only way to stop subsidy payment in the industry. “The only option we have to come out of this subsidy issue is the liberalisation of the downstream oil sector.  If we continue to subsidize products, we will continue to struggle as a nation. “Investment is lacking and we are trying to build refineries, we are talking to financiers, we have found them but we are yet to agree on terms. “Hopefully, by early next year, we will complete the financing agreement, that is one of the solutions to the problems,’’ he said The minister while answering questions from newsmen, confirmed that he a meeting is scheduled to hold between the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and consortium of financiers and investors to discuss terms of funding, rehabilitating and operating the NNPC refineries. “The meeting holding tomorrow (today) is largely trying to bring both parties together, NNPC and the consortium of financiers and investment together to deliberate on where NNPC stand and where they stands in terms of funding, basically it’s a negotiation issues.” “Am just saying everybody come to the table, lets know what the problem is , let see how we can bring people together and solve them,” he said President Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, said that the last three years had been eventful in the oil and gas sector. The President said the sector was faced with various challenges,  including crude oil production, revenue generation, joint venture cash calls, subsidy payment, refinery rehabilitation and regulatory issues. He said that the Ministry through the launch of the 7Big Wins in December 2016, had tried to tackle some of the challenges and brought about stability in the sector. “We now have the Gas policy approved in June/July 2017 and regulation for the gas flaring in the country. “I congratulate the leadership of the sector and all recipients of awards, government will continue to reward excellence. “Consider this award as the beginning, continue to serve the country diligently,’’ he said He urged all agencies in the sector to continue to work hard to bring investors for the growth and development of the sector. “Oil and gas sector remains strategic and will remain relevant in a long time, do not relent in finding solutions to challenges in the sector,’’ he added In her welcome address, the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan who commended the workforce for the success achieved in the past three years, stated that the ministry has the mandate to initiate policies for the oil and gas sector, supervise the implementation of approved policies and undertake regulations. She added that the agencies and parastatals under the supervision of the ministry ensures the execution of the approved policies for the sector. According to her the event was part of the ministry’s to celebrate and encourage personal of the ministry, agencies and parastatals that work seriously to advance its course in the last three years.