The Academic Staff Union of Universities(ASUU) has called on parents and students in the nation’s tertiary institutions to join in their cry to prevail on government to fix public universities. The national president of ASUU,Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, made this plea during a telephone interview with LEADERSHIP yesterday, on the update of the strike action. He added that the strike action which is in its fourth week was a struggle to revitalise the nation’s tertiary institutions which is in a state of rot. “ We sat with government. We conducted NEEDS assessment in 2012 with the federal government. We have a report on what we need to do to position our universities so that our students will be proud of their certificate and our parents proud of their children. Let us have quality education. “The solution is by revitalizing our universities. Let’s put pressure on government to honor this joint agreement on revitalizing our universities and we will all smile at the end of the day. “There is nothing good that comes easy. Everybody will make sacrifice. We are making sacrifices already because we see ourselves as intellectual vanguard of the society,” he said. He explained that the union was working hard to see that universities are put back in shape because it is part of their job as lecturers and intellectual vanguard of the society. “What we are doing is part of our job. Our job is in three part, we teach, conduct research and do community service. What we are doing now is community service as we are helping the Nigerian community to draw attention to education. It is part of our job.” “Our advocacy for education is not misplaced at all. If we turn our backs to education, our society has no tomorrow. We are doing this today, in other to salvage our tomorrow. Let our children see our point that we are trying to secure their future and the future of their own children. Let the parents support ASUU strike,” he said. Recall that the federal government and  the Academic Staff Union of Universities(ASUU) are yet to come to an agreement to end the ongoing strike by the union which started on November 5, 2018.