Certain individuals and interest groups angling to play critical roles in the re-election campaign of President Muhammadu Buhari may be responsible for the delay in the take-off of the campaign train of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), LEADERSHIP Friday checks have revealed. It was further gathered that party leaders are divided on who should play what role and at which particular point in time, even as some other influential persons are lobbying to also be positioned strategically when the campaign eventually starts. A similar scenario, it would be recalled, played out in the party’s national convention that produced the current National Working Committee (NWC) headed by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. After the then APC leadership under the former national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, had formed the committee that eventually planned and executed the national convention, the committee took total control of what and how the convention played out, while the national secretariat had little or no say at all. LEADERSHIP Friday also learnt that chief among the reasons for the delay was that the presidency is planning to run a one-month campaign to cut the cost implication often associated with an extended campaign period. According to credible party sources, President Buhari is not be favourably disposed to spending so much money on campaign when there are projects to be done. “The president, in his usual style, does not like unnecessary spending of resources. The people that will vote for him will do so even if he starts campaigning few days before the actual elections. The man wants to redefine ways of doing things and this includes how campaigns are done and funded”, one of the sources who did not want his name in print said. Another source however added that the president’s position is hinged on the fact that rather than an extended campaign period, it could rather be month-long compact campaigns where the party and the president will be showcasing the achievements of the last three and a half years. It was further gathered however that some states have already began to set up the Buhari/Osinbajo campaign teams in their respective states, as they await the eventual take-off of the train at the national level. 