A 51-year-old woman, Taibat Kareem, has collapsed and died during a deliverance service in a Cherubim and Seraphim Church  community, Lagos after allegedly drinking a substance said to be given to her by the church prophet, Olowomeye Ola, for deliverance. The issue provoked reactions from the residents who went to the church and brought out the pastor to mob him on the street. However, before he could be mobbed, the Isheri Police Division moved to the church, arrested two suspects including the pastor and took them to the police station for interrogation. The incident happened at Oriofe Street in Ijegun in the outskirts of Lagos where the church is located. According to the residents, her supplier, one Ayodele Isaac, a herbalist, invited the late Taibat, who dealt in local herbs, to take some herbs for sale. She was going to take the herbs when Pastor Ola accosted her and told her that she needed deliverance. He then took her to the church for prayers; it was during the prayer session that Pastor Ola gave her a liquid substance to drink. Immediately she drank the substance, she collapsed on the ground inside the church. Pastor Ola reportedly took her to his own room where he allegedly tried to revive her. It was in the midst of the confusion that the residents raised the alarm, attacked the pastor and attempted to mob him before the police rescued him. The corpse of the deceased, Taibat, was deposited at an undisclosed mortuary for autopsy while the two suspects mentioned over her death, Ola and Isaac, were transferred to the SCIID Panti, Yaba, for further investigation. When our correspondent visited Isheri Osun Police Division, the DPO was not around to comment on the incident. However, police sources at the station that the matter had been transferred to SCIID’s Homicide Department. When LEADERSHIP weekend correspondent visited the church, it was under lock and key. But the residents confirmed the incident and said that the police had arrested the pastor. The late Taibat was married with many children before she died last Thursday.