Prime Minister Scott John Morrison, Australia Scott John Morrison (born 13 May 1968) is an Australian politician serving as the 30th and current Prime Minister (PM) of Australia and leader of the Liberal Party since 24 August 2018. He earns the sum of $527,854. He has been a member of the House of Representatives since 2007, representing the Division of Cook in New South Wales. He is paid about 10.6 times the average annual per capita GDP of Australia, making him the current highest paid world leader. Following the Coalition’s victory at the 2013 election, Morrison was appointed Minister for Immigration and Border Protection in the Abbott Government. In that capacity he was responsible for implementing Operation Sovereign Borders, one of the Coalition’s flagship policies. In a December 2014 cabinet reshuffle, Morrison was instead made Minister for Social Services. He was promoted to Treasurer in September 2015, when Malcolm Turnbull replaced Tony Abbott as prime minister President Alain Berset, Switzerland Alain Berset (born 9 April 1972) is a Swiss politician of the Social Democratic Party. Since 1 January, 2012, he was a member of the Swiss Federal Council, the seven member Swiss executive, and head of the Federal Department of Home Affairs (the Swiss interior minister). On first of January 2018, he took office as President of the Swiss Confederation, head of the Federal Council; at age 45, Berset is the youngest President of the Confederation since Marcel Pilet-Golaz in 1934. Before being elected to the Federal Council in December 2011, he was a member of the Swiss Council of States for the Canton of Fribourg since 2003, serving as the chamber’s president during the 2008/2009 term. Berset speaks Swiss German, Swiss French, Swiss Italian, Romansh, and English. Berset earned a Ph.D in economics in 2005 with a dissertation on how migration on a global scale impacts local working conditions. He does marginally better salary-wise than his coworker in the Swiss chancellery, taking home the sum of $482,958 just over six times the average Swiss per capita GDP, making him the second highest paid President in the world. President Alexander Van der Bellen, Austria Alexander Van der Bellen, born on 18 January 1944, is the current President of Austria. He previously served as a professor of economics at the University of Vienna, and after joining politics, as the spokesman of the Austrian Green Party. He takes home $404,466. As a member of the noble Russian Van der Bellen family of Dutch ancestry, he was born in Austria to aristocratic Russian and Estonian parents who were refugees of Stalinism, and became a naturalised Austrian citizen together with his parents in 1958. He was a member of the National Council representing the Green Party there from 1994 to 2012, and served as both leader of the party as well as its parliamentary group. A professor of economics at the University of Vienna before entering politics, Van der Bellen earns nine times the annual Austrian GDP of just over $44,176 per person. Donald Trump, USA President The President of the United Nations of America is one of most popular and most critically hated political leader in the history of the world. He is rewarded with a $400,000 dollar pay cheque every year for basically signing any document, making him the current highest paid President in the world. The multi millionaire businessman does not really seem to care for the President’s salary as he makes almost 10 times its annual profit. Donald Trump has been making headlines since his campaigning period, be it his Muslim and immigration ban in America or sanctioning the internet rule to sell and purchase user data. He is also the first President of USA who is attracting so much hatred from its citizens. He succeeded the former President Barack Obama, who is practically an opposite of hum. Justin Trudeau, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is definitely one of the most handsome political leaders to rule a country. He is currently serving as the 23rd Canadian Prime Minister. He entered his office in 2015 and ever since has been the talk of the country, either for his amazing works and decisions or his flawless good looks. He is among the youngest Canadian Prime Ministers since Joe Clark. He has a DNA of a world leader, as he is the son of Pierre Trudeau, a former Prime Minister of Canada. He has decriminalised Marijuana and he also supports the tax cuts for middle class households. He has an annual salary of $260,000.