The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Nasarawa State, Labaran Maku, has said that the emergence of other governorship candidates from his Eggon ethnic group cannot affect his chances in the coming election, even as he expressed confidence of victory. He noted that his personality transcends ethnic and religious politics in the state. Maku, who was responding to a question during an audience participatory programme on Option FM in Akwanga, Nasarawa State, said he remains unperturbed by the number of governorship candidates from his ethnic group. According to him, people from all the ethnic nationalities will vote for the candidate they believe has the pedigree and capacity to tackle the myriad of challenges confronting the state. “This election is not about Eggon people. This election is about the candidate that will have support all over the state and it’s not about any particular tribe. I am offering myself to lead because I believe I have modest experience as demonstrated in my capacity that I could do certain things for the people of this state. “I can tell you today that as I go round in the campaign, people are not talking about tribe and religion anymore because of the things that have happened. People are talking about who will solve the problem of Nasarawa State,” he said. The former minister of Information and Defence, said people are no longer voting for political parties but for the personalities they believe has solution to their problems. “I think we have built sufficient trust with the people of Nasarawa State today by identifying with them,” he stated. He said unlike in the previous general elections in 2015, this time around APGA is fielding candidates in all elective positions in Nasarawa State and that the party has succeeded in putting the structures that can sensitize and mobilise people to vote during the forthcoming elections. The APGA governorship candidate, however, expressed concern over the lukewarm attitude of people towards collecting their Permanent Voter’s Cards, saying all political parties and community leaders should mobilise their people to exercise their franchise in the election. “The public should go and collect their cards. The PVCs are being distributed and INEC will come out but people will not go out and receive their PVCs. So I am calling on all voters please if you don’t have your PVC in your hand, you cannot do anything,” he said. While speaking on his plans for Nasarawa State if he is elected as governor, Mr. Maku said he planned to increase the Internally Generated Revenue of the state by ensuring peace and security, which will encourage investors to come and invest in the state.