The Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris yesterday kicked against Senate confirmation of appointment of any police officer nominated  by the Presidency for the office of  Inspector General of Police. Idris also opposed the sack of an occupant of the office of IGP by the senate even as he proposed five years tenure for a substantive IGP. Also, he opined that there should be an appointment of more than one Deputy Inspector General (DIG) at the Force headquarters. Idris stated this yesterday at the Public Hearing on a ‘Bill for an Act to Repeal the Police Act CAP P19 Law of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and Enact the Police Act 2018 (SB 682)’ organised by the Senate Committee on Police Affairs. This is the first time the IGP would appear in Senate since his face-off with the lawmakers over insecurity in the country. He had refused to honour the Senate’s invite for several times. Yesterday, the IGP surprisingly attended a public hearing in Senate,  although the Senate President, Bukola Saraki was not in attendance. According to Idris, the proposed Bill will help in reforming the Police and repositioning it in administration of justice.  He said: “There are a few observation by the Police Force. The confirmation and removal of Inspector General of Police by the Senate should be expunged from the bill. “Appointment of the IGP as recommended by the Police Service Commission and nominated by the President without Senate confirmation is desirable to Police”, he said. On the recommendation of the bill that only one Deputy Inspector General of Police should be appointed, Idris said if that is allowed, it will no doubt affect effective administration of the Force. “Presently I have 7 DIGs working with me at the Force headquarters. Reducing them to just only one DIG will be retrogressive, considering the enormity of administrative and operational responsibilities attached to the office of the IGP,” he said. While declaring the public hearing open, Senate President, Bukola Saraki who was represented by the Deputy Senate Leader, Bala Ibn Na’Allah, sponsor of the bill, tasked the Police in the country on adequate security of lives and property. He explained that the 75 years old colonial laws under which the Police operate need to be repealed and new laws enacted to keep the Force abreast of modern day policing in line with global best practices. In his remarks, chairman of Police Service Commission, Mr. Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General said if the bill is passed into law and effectively implemented, it would improve the police service. He however, advised for adequate accommodation of officers and men of the Nigeria Police within Police environment for efficient service delivery. Meanwhile, the Oba of Lagos, His Royal Highness, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, yesterday called on legislators to reduce their jumbo salaries and allowances to create enough funding for Police welfare.