The federal government and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, yesterday traded harsh words on the N8.83 trillion 2019 Appropriation Bill President Muhammadu Buhari presented to the National Assembly on Wednesday last week. While the Executive arm of the government declared that budget was a well-thought economic blueprint capable of addressing the social and economic problems facing the country, Atiku asserted that it was “fundamentally flawed”. Although officials of the federal government told LEADERSHIP that they were out for the immediate and full implementation of the budget and not to play politics with it, they stoutly defended all the parameters used in computing the document and charged Atiku to allow reason prevail above sentiments. One of the senior government officials, who craved anonymity, said that what matters to the Buhari administration is how to execute the budget to the letter to achieve the set goals and avoid distractions by politicians who are playing to the gallery. He said: “We are not interested in playing politics with the issue of national budget. Our priority is how to implement the budget and lift more Nigerians out of abject poverty as unveiled by the president when he presented the appropriation bill to the National Assembly last week.” Another official simply said: “Let our critics do their work while we deliver on the budget to Nigerians who are convinced that this administration means well for them.” But, Atiku in a document titled: “My Take On The 2019 Budget”,  declared that the budget would not pull Nigeria from the abyss rather it would accentuate the misery and hopelessness the people have lived with since 2015. According to him, President Buhari in the document deliberately ignored and failed to address the current realities. Last Wednesday, Buhari presented the 2019 budget to a joint session of the National Assembly where he proposed an aggregate expenditure of N8.83 trillion for the year, of which N4.04 trillion was allocated recurrent expenditure, N2.31 trillion for capital expenditure, and N2.14 trillion for debt service. In his assessment of the budget, Atiku asserted that “it is not developmental”, stressing that “it is built on very shaky foundation and makes very generous, often wild and untenable assumptions which pose significant risks to its implementation.” He continued:  “Several inaccurate claims litter the budget document – all, I think, in an attempt by Mr. President to whitewash the regime and hide their monumental failure to improve, even minimally, the welfare and living standards of much of the population. I see the rhetoric of ‘inclusive, diversified and sustainable growth’ as no more than an amplification of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government’s renewed propaganda to hoodwink the citizens into believing that there is ‘light at the end of the tunnel’. “Few of these claims by Mr. President are that ‘we have recorded several successes in economic management’, that ‘the economy has recovered from recession’, that  ‘foreign capital inflows including direct and portfolio investments (have) responded to improved economic management and that ‘we have had a sustained accretion to foreign exchange reserves’ etc. “In reality, the economy is yet to recover from the 2016/2017 recession as it remains severely stressed, extremely fragile and vulnerable to external shocks. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth declined from 2.11 per cent in 2017 to 1.9 per cent in Q1 and to 1.5 per cent in Q2 of 2018. In Q3 of 2018 there was only a marginal increase of 0.3 per cent to 1.8 per cent. “In its current form, the local economy is not dynamic enough to journey to their so-called NEXTLEVEL,” Atiku said. For the year 2019, a general slowdown in the real growth rates of economic activity in both the oil and non-oil sectors has been projected at 1.9 per cent by the World Bank. This rate is well below the 2019 budget projection of 3.01 per cent and is not enough to create the needed jobs for the growing population of the country or for the attainment of the SDGs, he said, Besides, the PDP candidate gave six reasons why the budget cannot work. First, according to him, is that the 2019 budget is built on a very shaky foundation; second, it is a business as usual budget because the government repeats the same mistakes and expects different results, and third, the budget is based on grossly exaggerated assumptions, lack coherent and comprehensive policies to give hope that these assumptions can be met. He gave the fourth reason as the small size of the budget. Atiku said: “The size of the budget is not sufficient to stimulate growth of the economy, create jobs and alleviate poverty. The planned total expenditure of N8.83 trillion is lower than 2018 budget by approximately N290 billion. The federal government is contracting the economy whereas in a period of recession, government must spend more to have meaningful impact on jobs and poverty.” The Waziri Adamawa further argued that Nigeria’s fiscal crisis persists and fiscal position of the federal government and by extension, the states and local governments remain precarious. He expressed worry that projected revenues of N6.97 trillion are three per cent lower than 2018 while the oil sector continues its dominance as it contributes 54 per cent of the budget revenues. The non-oil sector is expected to contribute only 20 per cent of the budget revenues. There are no coherent and comprehensive plans to expand the resource horizon of the government, Atiku stated. Lastly, Atiku argued that just like the previous budgets, recurrent costs and debt service take a lion share of the budget as against capital expenditure. Capital expenditure will be only 23 per cent of planned expenditure. On the other hand, 24 per cent of the budget will be spent on debt service and 46 per cent on overhead and personnel costs. Thus over 70 per cent of the budget will be devoted to recurrent costs and debt service. This will not grow the economy and create jobs, he declared He promised that Atiku presidency will present to Nigerians next year a people’s budget that will focus on the twin challenges of unemployment and poverty. Atiku Shying Away From Reality, Says Ndume Meanwhile, Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South) has asked Atiku to bend backward and take a cursory look at where he and the PDP left the country in order to consciously appreciate the administration of President Buhari. According to him, ‘’the 2019 budget is a budget of continuity, like the previous budgets of Mr President; it is projected and designed to fill craters of economic mismanagement left behind by the PDP government which Atiku was roundly a part of. ‘’The attendant consequences of the economic mismanagement include deficit in infrastructure in the country without any good road anywhere in the country. There was massive decrease in living standard brought to bear on Nigerians due to corruption and revenue leakages the government has been trying to address. These are some of the current realities this government is striving to address’’, Ndume said. Reduce Oil Benchmark, Increase Budget Deficit – Experts Meanwhile, experts have urged the federal government to reduce the projected oil benchmark. Speaking on the proposed budget, the managing director and chief executive of Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismark Rewane, said that while the 2019 budget was in order, the projection of oil price was however way too optimistic. He said: “The budget was not unexpected; it was exactly in line with the Medium Term Framework (MTF). The only problem I have is the oil price assumption which is a bit optimistic. The benchmark price is $60 per barrel while the current price is $56. While this is an expected average for the rest of the year, I think it might be prudent for us to reduce the oil price benchmark and increase the deficit. I don’t think we should reduce the spending but should increase the deficit. Also, the president of Nigerian Economic Society (NES), Prof. Tamunopriye Agiobenebo, said that Nigerians have mixed feelings about the budget because of the poor implementation rate. He had said that in spite of the delay in the passage of the 2018 budget, N820.57 billion had been released for capital projects as at December 14. Agiobenebo said that the level of implementation of the budget or its performance seemed to reduce yearly and that this got people disillusioned. “In actual fact, we would want to know what is the social benefit of every kobo spent in each sector of the economy and that would be their guidance in allocating.’’ When preparing the budget, he said that the state of the economy, which is very important, should be considered, adding that, “there is this debate about whether we have come out of recession or not, there is confusion there. Recession is a phase in economics and not a step, if you fall 100 steps backwards and gain 25, there are 75 steps to come but you can slip back depending on the shocks that you have. “I would have thought that if we could simply process our agricultural products and with the little thing we have in our research institutions and universities, we will create the needed jobs and that is where they should look at,” he stated.