Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is monitoring its workers nationwide who may be fraternising with politicians. The commission said it would also properly screen people and organisations seeking to observe the 2019 polls to ensure that those having connection with candidates and political parties are excluded. INEC said the purpose of accrediting observers for elections was a noble one intended to increase the transparency and openness of the process, adding that observing elections would not be left in the hands of political parties, candidates and political interest groups. The commission’s chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, who revealed this at the swearing-in of Mrs Rose Oriaran-Anthony as the third INEC secretary and second woman to hold the position, said the monitoring of its staff was now in full force in order to ensure transparency in the 2019 general elections. Yakubu stated: “As we approach the 2019 general elections, the commission will pay particular attention to the conduct of our own officials from the headquarters to the state and local government areas, including ad hoc staff engaged in election duty. “We will not tolerate the complicity of staff with political actors or their agents to subvert the electoral process. All officials of the commission must remain neutral in the discharge of their duties and committed to protecting the sanctity of the process”. He further stated that INEC was concerned at the calibre of groups and individuals applying to be observers in the coming elections. “The commission has been inundated by applications from several groups within the country for accreditation to observe the elections, including support groups of candidates contesting in the elections. This is unacceptable to the commission. Observers are neutral groups interested only in the process and not agents of political parties, candidates or campaign organisations,” Yakubu said, adding that a thorough screening will be done. He continued: “The purpose of accrediting observers for elections is a noble one intended to increase the transparency and openness of the process. The reports of observers also serve as a useful feedback mechanism for strengthening our processes and procedures. “It is therefore counter-productive for such an important process to become an all-comers business. Going forward, the commission has revised the guidelines for the accreditation of observers. Interested organisations are required to apply to the commission. Details will be published this weekend and early next week in national newspapers and on the commission’s website. “We shall critically scrutinise all applications from organisations interested in election observation and only those that meet the rigorous criteria will be accredited”. The INEC chairman congratulated the new secretary to the commission, saying the electoral body expected her to discharge of her responsibilities professionally and in the best interest of the nation. He said, “To underscore the importance of your office, you have just sworn to the oath of allegiance to the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the official oath and the oath of secrecy. You are required to live up to the triple oaths in your personal and official conduct,” Yakubu told the new secretary. “You are the head of the commission’s secretariat responsible for its administration and proper keeping of its record of proceedings. Subject to the approval of the Commission, you are also responsible for the direction and control of all other employees. “Your appointment is coming on the eve of the 2019 general elections which is just 56 days away, the commission has confidence in your ability to bring your tremendous desk and field experience to bear on your new responsibilities.” Mrs Oriaran-Anthony is now the third substantive secretary and the second woman to be appointed by the commission in line with the provision of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), following the completion of the tenure of Abdullahi Kaugama (2008-2013) and Mrs Augusta Chinwe Ogakwu (2013-2018).