A member of the House of Representatives, Hon Mohammed Umar Bago, has flagged off his re-election campaign with the donation of 100 vehicles to support President Muhammadu Buhari and Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello’s re-election bids. Bago, who represents Chanchaga federal constituency presented the vehicles at the event which had other stakeholders in attendance. Speaking at the occasion, governor Bello, who was represented by his deputy, Alhaji Ahmed Ketso, described Niger state as a core APC state and pledged the support of the people of the state to the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that PMB is a gift to Nigeria. Bello asserted that Niger state was ready to move to the next level adding that with people like Hon Bago in its fold, the party remains unbeatable and formidable in all fronts. While appreciating the lawmaker for his constant show of loyalty and support to the party and describing the donation of the vehicles as an unprecedented gesture, the governor also commended people of the state for their goodwill and support of his administration and that of President Buhari. He further charged the citizens to ensure that they collect their permanent voters card (PVCs) and use same to elect APC candidates at all levels. “Our PVCs are our power, those of you who have not collected your cards should endeavor to do so within the allowed period. And the best way to translate our love for PMB and APC is to use our card to reelect him and all candidates of our party”, he said. In his remarks, Hon. Bago who is the Chairman of House Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration,  said his decision to galvanize support and donate the campaign vehicles is due to his belief that the President has performed far above expectations thus, deserves another term to consolidate and advance on his remarkable change agenda that has drastically reduced institutional corruption and improved the socio-economic indices of the nation for the better. Highlights of the event were the distribution of over 100 branded vehicles to various groups and trade associations, launching of campaign hash tag #NigerNaBuhariDaLoloNe, as well cultural displays and musical entertainment by famous artistes.