Recently, the Nigerian Ambassador to the Kingdom of Netherlands, Oji Ngofa launched a media tirade against the Senator representing Rivers South East senatorial district, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, over what he said was the plan of the governorship aspirant in Rivers State to destroy the All Progressives Congress (APC), led by a serving minister from the state. Ngofa, in the interview, gave the impression that he was very close to Senator Abe and considering the interest of his party in taking over the Rivers Brick House come 2019, sees Abe’s ambition, which he has pursued legitimately, as the biggest threat to the party ahead of 2019. As I read through the interview, I sensed where Ambassador Ngofa was coming from and I must stress that I saw what ambition can do to the thought of the noblest of men. Having enjoyed the best of patronage from the former governor of Rivers State and current Minister of Transport. But one thing he fails to realise is that no matter how fast lies may move, it will surely be overtaken by the truth. First and foremost, he has to realise that Abe has the full legitimate right to contest for the position of governor of the state even as I believe also that Rotimi Amaechi has the full right to support whoever he wants to support. But one thing he failed to address is whether the former governor is going about his support with decorum, utmost respect for legitimacy and for rule of law. He also failed to realise the fact that whoever the minister supports must not win. If the party can decide not to give its ticket to the anointed candidates of governors Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State and Yari of Zamfara State on grounds that they were trying to foist candidates on the party, viewed as undemocratic, why allow the same scenario in Rivers State considering the fact that the foisted candidate does not have the clout of Senator Magnus Abe. Does it not amount to double standards? Why did the party dance to the tune of the minister? By conducting indirect primaries in the state while accepting direct primaries for other states with lesser issues as that of Rivers State? Ambassador Ngofa showed that his celebrated closeness to his Ogoni brother Senator and governorship aspirant was not real but all politics. One thing he has failed to understand is that unlike other aspirants who showed their desperation for power by defecting on the slightest opportunity available, Sen Abe has remained with the party, supporting President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term ambition. His only offence seems to be his decision to legitimately fight for his right using the law court. Interestingly, the judgments of the courts favoured Abe. Ngofa is an Ambassador to a country where they respect the rule of law. Is it not improper that he admires what they do there while he detests the same thing over here in his country? He clearly shows what many Nigerians who have travelled abroad have failed to do, which is to bring back home the lessons they have learnt in foreign lands. Sen. Abe is on the right path as far as democracy is concerned. Falling for the whims and caprices of a singular individual whose pride and ego is destroying the party does not show a man of character, it only shows a man desperate for power.  – Nwokocha wrote in from Port Harcourt  