All is set for the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emeifele, to meet with executives of commercial banks, leaders of Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA) as part of efforts to resolve the lingering fuel subsidy crisis. Despite federal government’s decision to pay outstanding debts it incurred via subsidy payment on petroleum products, there had been growing tension over impending fuel scarcity in the yuletide period following the threat by oil marketers to embark on strike. The meeting, according to DAPPMA, will determine the next line of action to be taken by the oil marketers on the issue. LEADERSHIP learnt that the meeting is critical to the resolution of issues emanating from discrepancies between figures approved by government for payment and what the marketers are claiming. According to sources, the meeting will also afford the government the opportunity to explain to the banks its position on interest charges accruing from loan facilities granted the marketers to import petroleum products, which is said to have attributed to the huge claim the marketers are making. Earlier in the month, DAPPMA had threatened to shutdown depots across the country and stop its members from loading petroleum products if the outstanding payment of subsidy claim of about N800 billion is not paid. Consequently, the federal government, after series of discussions with the oil marketers, resolved to pay the money in tranches, with the first tranche amounting to N236 billion scheduled for payment on Friday, December 14, 2018. But according to media reports, government had offered to stop interest charges on the loans dating back to 2017. Chief Operating Officer, Downstream of the NNPC, Mr Henry Ikem-Obih, had after meeting with some officials of the marketers association in Abuja disclosed that the mode of settling the outstanding payment had been agreed between the federal government and the oil marketers since 2017. Meanwhile, the oil marketers claim that the banks have continued to charge interest on the loans since they have not been settled. Confirming today’s meeting, the executive secretary of DAPPMA, Olufemi Adewole, said it was convened to enable the CBN governor to personally deliver the message to the bankers. “We have held the meeting and we are still going to have another one by today with the CBN governor and the banks. The CBN governor has a message for the banks which he wants to deliver by himself because there are some technicalities in the promissory notes that they gave us and he is in the best position to deliver it not us,” he told our correspondent in a telephone chat. According to him, the marketers will continue to engage government until an amicable resolution is reach. He stated that even though the Federal Executive Council and the National Assembly had approved only N348 billion, the DMO is issuing promissory notes of N236 billion, stressing that how the balance and accruing interest will be paid has to be defined. He added that the sorting of these issues will determine the next line of action of the marketers. Speaking on how the differentials will be addressed he said, “We are going to start reconciling because the federal government has not reconciled the second tranche. In most of my media engagement I have said it that what we are being paid now is less than half of the total amount we are claiming but the amount also needs to be verified and checked”. He stated that once the various committees set up by government arrive at an agreed figure, they expect the second tranche payment to commence immediately. He noted that since interest charges have been stopped by the CBN the value once agreed will no longer increase. Asked if he was certain that the banks will cooperate with them by stopping interest payment, he said, “That is not our headache; that is the instruction from the CBN. So, any bank MD who will not cooperate with us, the CBN will handle that. It is not for marketers to worry about. “The government told us this is what will happen; so, our own is just to take a letter indicating that to the bank. Based on the relationship between the CBN and the banks they have to obey.” Similarly, Mr Adewole has confirmed that some marketers have not been able to collect their promissory notes, as banks continue to bring all manner of court orders authorising them to lay claim to the money. He said, “In fact, some of them (marketers) have not been able to collect their promissory notes because when they started giving out the promissory notes on Friday some banks started rushing in with court injunctions. So, marketers involved in such situations are also proceeding to courts to get those orders reversed and once that is done they will collect their promissory notes. “Most of the banks went to court, while marketers were not aware. Now that they have full knowledge of what is happening they will also go to court to have the claims reversed and get a relief from such orders”.