Ahead of the 2019 general election, the Independent National Electoral Commission (lNEC) has concluded the verification of the presidential and the National Assembly candidates, LEADERSHIP gathered last night. It was gathered that even though there were substitutions of candidates contesting for the national assembly seats, all processes concerning the presidential candidates have been concluded with their names set to be publish in January. Also, the centre that was opened by INEC at the International Conference Centre (ICC) for the collection of candidates forms and their data has been closed. LEADERSHIP reports that the ICC office was opened by INEC in October for the submission of the list of candidates (Form CF002) and their personal particulars (Forms CF001). The centre was closed yesterday following the completion of the verification of the presidential candidates, it was gathered. In its electoral circle, the commission successfully registered new political parties, carry out Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) and is currently issuing Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) after the release of the 2019 election time table and schedule of activities. In the same 2018, INEC monitored political parties conventions and primaries. The commission carried out a clean-up on the voter register and displayed it for Nigerians to scrutinise. While carrying out its function of collation of list of candidates from various political parties and entertained issues that bothered on substitution of candidates as the case may be, INEC said last night it has completed the verification of the residential candidates. “We have closed the International Conference Centre office today,” INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr Festus Okoye said. According to Okoye, verification for the Presidential candidates have been completed adding that their names will be publish in January, 2019. “Verification of presidential candidates have been completed. That of the National Assembly is almost done. There was substitution of candidates and we will soon publish the final list,” Okoye added.