Supporters of former vice president and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, are optimistic that he will defeat President Muhammadu Buhari at the February 2019 presidential election. They said that he is favoured to win the poll because of his sterling qualities and the poor performance of the current administration. The PDP candidate’s loyalists spoke yesterday in Abuja at the launch of Atiku Abubakar Vanguard (AAV), a support group of the Waziri Adamawa. Consequently, they asked Buhari to start packing his property from the Aso Villa ahead of the February 16, 2019 presidential election. At the event, AAV’s national coordinator and co-convener, Barr. Israel Mbaebie, said: “It is certain that PDP’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, will defeat  Buhari at the polls”. He said: “It is obvious that Atiku will floor the incumbent president at the next year’s election due to the abysmal performance of the current administration in tackling the economic, security, kidnapping and other crises bedeviling the country”. Mbaebie continued: “Buhari should start packing, we are not concerned about his identity, he must go and that is what we are after. Atiku is one hundred percent Nigerian and has one hundred percent support of Nigerians”. “Our campaign will be issue-based; we cannot play their dirty politics, Atiku’s campaign will be issue-based and ideologically driven. We are not going to engage in spreading tantrums with them, we will destroy their lies with our facts. “We are ready to make sacrifice and take back Nigeria from the All Progressives Congress (APC); we are committed to do everything legally to make sure we salvage Nigeria, their time is gone and this is the time to take back what belongs to Nigerians,” he added. Earlier in his remarks, South-East zonal coordinator of AAV, Dr. Nkemjika Ogini,  said their support for Atiku was borne out of the neglect of the South-Eastern region by the current administration. According to him, “it is not by accident that South East Zone of the country which I coordinate decided to throw its weight behind Nigeria’s former Vice President. This is because the zone has suffered tremendous neglect in all ramifications in the almost four years of the present administration. “But in the eight years during which Atiku held sway as number two Nigerian he spread his tentacles across the length and breadth of the country, without discrimination. “So, I say with certainty and without fear of contradiction that we can entrust our collective destiny into the hands of this indefatigable political leader and international business magnate. “As no country can grow without opening its doors to foreign investments both capital and labour , I believe that this time around Nigerians will vote wisely, without sentiments for a leader of proven track records like Atiku Abubakar. “Without any intent to be partisan I must categorically state that Atiku Abubakar is by far the best of the whole lot currently vying for the highest office in the land.” State and zonal coordinators and other delegates of AVV from the 36 states of the federation and the FCT attended the inauguration which took place at the Nicon Luxury Hotel, Abuja.