The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday held a consultative meeting with governorship candidates of the party where a vote of confidence  was unanimously passed on the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). LEADERSHIP reports that the fallout of the primaries had polarized the party with some aggrieved candidates calling for the removal of the national chairman. This is as the national chairman frowned at party members who had cast aspersion on the primaries with a view to getting same cancelled, alleging that such persons may be working for the opposition. But rising from the meeting which had the governorship candidates and their state chairmen in attendance, it was  however agreed that candidates should among other things, run inclusive, issue-based campaigns as well as reach out to other contestants who had lost out in the contest. Speaking at the opening ceremony, Oshiomhole urged the candidates to unify the party in their states by bringing on board some popular governorship aspirants that were defeated in the primaries so that the party can go to the elections united. The outcome of the meeting is contained in a statement signed by the national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu. According to the statement, the meeting, “Frowned at attempts by some party leaders to polarise the party in some states following post-primary disputes.” The meeting also, “Resolved that party leaders must campaign for all candidates of the party (presidential, governorship and legislative positions). A situation where leaders engage in selective support by picking and choosing candidates to campaign for and support was declared anti-party.” It called on governorship candidates to run issue-based campaign based on the unprecedented achievements of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration which is evident in all the states of the federation. It also urged the party’s governorship candidates to run inclusive campaign by bringing onboard former aspirants. The party’s governorship and other stakeholders were also encouraged to domesticate ongoing peace and reconciliation efforts undertaken by the National Working Committee.