The Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) said yesterday that the federal government has no plans to increase the price of petrol. The executive secretary of the agency, Abdulkadir Saidu, who made the clarification in a statement issued in Abuja, insisted that the retail price of petrol remains at the subsisting price cap of N145 per litre. He urged Nigerians to ignore the growing speculation on the purported imminent increase in the pump price. Saidu advised marketers to ensure that there is no price distortion in their respective retail outlets, even as he said PPPRA would continue to carry out its oversight function of monitoring exercise in depots and in all filling stations across the country. This, he noted, was to ensure adherence to the regulated price and to nip in the bud other forms of sharp practices at retail outlets. Warning that adequate sanctions await any erring filling station, the executive secretary commended the petroleum product marketers in the country for embracing dialogue with the federal government to resolve the issues arising from payment of the outstanding fuel subsidy claims. According to him, embarking on strike is not always the best option to address any industrial dispute, irrespective of the circumstances, adding that the multiplier effects are always too much to bear. Saidu appealed to the leadership of the oil marketers’ associations to cooperate with the federal government to find a workable solution to the issues emanating from the payment of subsidy arrears. He noted that PPPRA would continue to support, cooperate and collaborate with marketers to ensure conducive industrial climate where the best of the oil and gas sector could be showcased. Saidu also assured Nigerians of PPPRA’s total commitment to service delivery and uninterrupted petroleum product supply and distribution, especially during this festive period and beyond. He appealed to motorists and other petrol consumers to desist from panic-buying, as PPPRA is working hard with other agencies of government to ensure adequate supply and distribution of petroleum products nationwide.