Of the 151 companies listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), 73 of them paid a total of N580.395 billion for the financial year ended December 2017 and interim dividends for half-year 2018. The leaders in this category are Dangote Cement, Zenith Bank and 71 others, which represent 48.34 per cent of the entire listed equities. The other frontrunners are Nestle Nigeria, Guaranty Trust (GTB), United Bank for Africa (UBA), Access Bank, Stanbic IBTC, Total Nigeria, Custodian Alliance and Nigerian Breweries, declared interim dividend for half year 2018. A breakdown of the performing equities showed that Dangote Cement paid the highest dividend of N178.93 billion followed by Zenith Bank, N76.92 billion; Guaranty Trust Bank, N70.63 billion; UBA, N22.23 billion; Access Bank, N11.57 billion; Stanbic IBTC, N5.02 billion, and Dangote Sugar N15billion. Not left out are FCMB Group, N1.9 billion; Fidelity Bank, N3.19 billion; FBNH, N8.9 billion; Flour Mills Nigeria, N2.62 billion; Lafarge Africa, N8.36 billion; Chemical Allied Products (CAP), N1.435 billion; Dangote Flour, N1 billion; Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN), N1.57 billion; Conoil, N1.39 billion; Okomu Oil, N2.86 billion, among others. Some experts said that from 2011 to 2018, dividend-paying quoted companies generally maintained cash dividend payouts, irrespective of the business cycle, which cumulatively presented attractive dividend yields relative to their respective depressed share prices as at December 08, 2011 when the market index, NSE ASI, was at its lowest. For some companies such as NASCON, UBA and Zenith Bank, their dividend yields when adjusted for a 93.23 per cent cumulative annual inflation rate, remained positive. For the reaping investors, dividend-paying stocks have come to make a lot of sense in Nigeria given the almost cultural belief that returns on investment is the essence of engaging in any business adventure. Dividend is a token reward paid to the shareholders for their investment in a company’s equity, and it usually originates from the company’s net profits. While the major portion of the profit is kept by the company as retained earnings which represent the money to be used its ongoing and future business activities, the remainder can be allocated to the shareholders as a dividend. The chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting Limited, Ambrose Omorodion said that dividend payment in equity investment is as old as the stock market itself which is a function of a company’s profitability at any given time. He stated that the key to any successful portfolio is stable growth and additional income from interim or full year dividends that gives investors the flexibility to earn some cash for reinvestment or to meet their personal needs, adding that investors are advised not to overlook the opportunities for high dividend-yield in the market regardless of the expected dividend-cut in some industries due to prevailing economic situation and other reasons. Also, the managing director of HighCap Securities Limited, Mr. David Adonri, said that an investor who wants to receive a steady income should consider investing in established companies, which are mainly concerned with keeping their shareholders happy with dividend payments. Adonri explained that investors also regard dividend payment as a sign of a company’s strength. Similarly, analysts at Nairametrics said that the importance of high dividend stocks in a portfolio cannot be more now than ever before with the increased uncertainties in the market. They noted that one of the ways to keep an investment growing or at least insulated from the ups and downs of the market, apart from through diversification, is to have stable income producing stocks in such a portfolio. The experts urged investors to ensure that they have high dividend-yielding stocks in their portfolio as one of the ways of enjoying stable income. According them, sometimes, the best or highest dividend-yielding stocks might not necessarily come from the blue chips or most actively traded stocks, stressing that they may come from thinly traded stocks that nobody shows interest in or cares to follow. In fact, some analysts at Cowry Asset Management said that “against the backdrop of the unfavourable conditions which have significantly depressed the market price of most corporates on the exchange, we opined that investors should pitch their tents with dividend-paying companies or cash cows. “We expect most corporates to maintain their respective dividends per share paid in 2017 as hinted by some banks which paid higher interim dividends in 2018. The current lower stock market prices avail investors the opportunity to invest in some fundamentally-sound companies which are significantly undervalued as they trade below their book values and offer potentially mouth-watering dividend yields and higher returns on both equity and assets amid growth in earnings per share; thus, silently creating future value for the patient investors,” they said.