It was the gathering of the creme-de-la-creme of the Nigerian society who converged at Uromi,  the Country of late Chief Anthony Anenih, former Minister of Works and Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as his remain was laid to mother earth in Arue-Uromi , Esan North East of Edo State after  a funeral mass service at the St. Anthony Catholic Cathedral, Uromi. In a Homily, the Cath‎olic Bishop of Uromi Dioceses, Most Rev. Bishop Donatus Ogun, said the life of a man is short and defined by God, adding that the day man will return God is uncertain. He therefore, urged Nigerians to make out time every day to get close to God, saying “let us work hard to make the eyes of God see us as His own”. Bishop Ogun described the late‎ Chief Anenih as a good Christian and man of his word, who spoke of his conviction irrespective of political affiliation. “He was called Mr. Fix it not because he could solve all problems, but because he believed any problem can be solved if people are ready to shift ground. “He was a man of integrity who lived by his words. As a Catholic, consistency was‎ exceptional to him. He was an outstanding politician and mentor, who kept his promises, who believed in giving others opportunity to be”, he said. Bishop Ogun added that it will be difficult to find replacement for Chief Anenih in Esan land, saying that anyone to replace him must start with the generosity of himself, Anenih was generous with his person, time and resources, adding “he was generous to a fault”. He warned Nigerians and politicians not to make promises they cannot fulfil ‎because God will demand account from them. Speaking on political ‎campaigns for 2019 general election, the Catholic Bishop urged politicians to campaign on issues. “Nigerians are tired of hearing rubbish, give us something fresh when we go to bed. If you‎ are hiring a campaign manager, tell us what you want to do to improve our lives”, he said. Among dignitaries at the church service were President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, former President Goodluck Jonathan, PDP Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, represented by his running mate, Peter Obi. Others were governors Godwin Obaseki, Ifeanyi Okowa and Dickson Seriake of Edo, Delta and Bayelsa states, ex-governor James Ibori and Emmanuel Uduaghan of Delta State, Aliko Dangote and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC).