Nigeria loses a whopping N2.8 trillion annually to foreign insurance companies due to low capacity of local insurers to absorb huge risks, LEADERSHIP investigations have revealed. It was learnt that foreign insurers control more than 80 per cent of risks in the country, owing to the fact that only about 15 to 20 per cent are retained locally. This leaves local Insurers at a disadvantage position, with most of the premium income from lucrative sectors now going abroad. To this effect, foreign underwriting firms have taken over risks in oil and gas, marine and aviation sectors because of their huge capitalisation that enables them pay claims promptly from huge insured risks in the aforementioned sectors. For instance, it was learnt that foreign and local ship owners as well as charterers entering Nigerian territorial and coastal waters are paying a whopping N1.8 trillion annually to foreign insurance companies for operating on the country’s waters. Each of the 5,000 vessels calling at Nigerian Ports annually, it was further learnt, is made to pay $100,000 as insurance premium tagged ‘War Risk’ on ships coming to the country’s waters. As a result, ship owners, both local and foreign, pay over N1.8 trillion (using N365/ $1 exchange rate) to insure their ships against any attack on a yearly basis. Currently, only few local insurance companies have the needed capacity to underwrite marine risks; hence, most marine insurances, especially as regards ship insurances, are always ceded abroad. In some cases, however, this business is being shared between the local insurers and foreign insurers, even though the foreign insurers retain the highest risks and premiums. Because of low capacity of most underwriters in the country, the insurance industry is losing about N1.8 trillion on a yearly basis to these foreign insurers. Similarly, industry sources revealed that about N1 trillion is also being lost to foreign underwriters in the oil and gas as well as aviation sectors annually, thereby, crippling the expected premium income of the insurance industry. The CEO of Aero Contractors, Captain Ado Sanusi, said one of the reasons Nigerian airlines prefer to insure their aircraft with foreign companies is because of capacity. He explained that the local insurance companies do not have the capacity, which explains why it takes a bit longer to pay claims when they come. According to Sanusi, the local market is not ripe to wholly and fully insure aircraft, even as there is no reason for indigenous insurance operators to attempt carrying risks they cannot handle. This, he noted, explains why the local insurance companies re-insure risks with international companies so that the foreign companies that have the capacity could support them in carrying the risks. Sanusi said, “You cannot insure your aircraft locally when you know that the local market does not have the capacity to carry the risk. For example, if you buy your aircraft for $100 million and you have three aircraft acquired at that price, which is $300 million and you want to insure them locally, can the market carry the risk? “This is why airlines insure with international companies, not because we don’t want to insure with local insurers. If you insure outside, you are exposed to the Asian market, the European market and the US market and the risk is shared with re-insurers and when there is compensation, it would be easy to pay claims. This is a shared risk”. President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo, had at the 45th African Insurance Organisation Conference and Annual General Assembly in Accra, the country’s capital, said Nigeria, Ghana and other regional insurance markets annually lose a whopping N2.89 trillion ($8billion) to offshore insurance markets mainly in Europe and America, due to fragmented nature of African insurance markets. This, he said, had resulted to the inability of firms in the continent to handle big ticket businesses within the region. Akufo-Addo who was represented at the seminar by the senior Finance Minister, Yaw Osafo-Marfo, noted that whereas in developed world markets, insurance firms operate on large scale basis, in Africa there are numerous small size insurance firms with low capacity and inability to underwrite huge and profitable businesses, which are most times flown abroad to America and European markets. Nigeria, according to market observers, has the highest fraction of the N2.8 trillion being flown abroad annually. Currently, the Gross Premium income for the entire insurance industry as at the end of third quarter 2018 stood at N315 billion, a profit that could be wiped off by a single huge claim in either oil and gas, aviation or marine sectors. Consequently, foreign underwriting firms are the ones insuring the highly volatile sectors such as oil and gas, marine, and aviation sectors. This leaves local underwriters to scramble for businesses in group life, motor insurance, among others whose premium income is not as high as the earliest mentioned sectors. While there have been incessant calls from experts and stakeholders for recapitalisation of insurance industry in the country, underwriters are still operating with the same level of capitalisation 11 years since the last recapitalisation exercise which took place in 2007. This, according to market observers, is not in tune with the current business realities, especially as the cost of assets replacement has sporadically gone up in the last 10 years, thereby, shortchanging the industry. But in response to this, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in July announced a Tier-based recapitalisation exercise for the insurance industry by putting the deadline in January 2019 and later shifted it to October 2018. Based on this premises, some shareholders took NAICOM to court, urging the court to stop the recapitalisation process. The commission later announced suspension of the Tier Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBMSC) framework before it later cancelled the recapitalisation exercise. If the recapitalisation exercise had gone through, market analysts said, it would have increased the capitalisation of insurance industry by at least 300 per cent, which would have allowed insurers in the country to retain some of these insurance businesses being taken abroad. But as it stands, status quo remains the same, meaning that, non-Life Insurance Firms are to continue to operate with a minimum of N3 billion capitalization, Life Insurance Operators to maintain N2 billion and Composite Insurers are to maintain N5 billion minimum capital base. While calling on his colleagues in the insurance business to shore up their capital base, irrespective of the cancellation of the recapitalisation exercise, the president of Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Mr Eddie Efekoha, said most insurance companies will still lose businesses they used to underwrite, as policyholders seem poised to transfer their risks to underwriting firms with strong capital base. Efekoha who is also the Managing Director/CEO, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc stated that there is a particular transaction in Exxon Mobil for several years that never respected the N3 billion capitalisation, adding that operators whose capital were within this minimum were excluded from the business. He noted that he was told recently of a broker who said his client had informed him not to place risks with any underwriting firm with less than N9 billion as proposed in the cancelled TBMSC policy. Efekoha noted that with such developments, it is now immaterial whether the industry regulator withdraws the TBMSC policy, just as he said the policy has opened the eyes of insurance consumers. “It is immaterial whether the commission has withdrawn from the TBMSC or not. Of course, we are all here in this market. There is a particular transaction in Exxon Mobil for several years that never respected the N3 billion capitalisation and to that extent, some of us whose capital were not up to that minimum were excluded”, he stated.