It was the end of an era for former President Shehu Shagari as his remains were yesterday buried according to Islamic rites in his country home at the headquarters of Shagari local government area in Sokoto State. Shagari died on Friday at the National Hospital, Abuja, at the age of 93. Performing the funeral prayers yesterday alongside other clerics, the Chief Imam of the National Mosque, Prof Shehu Galadanci, prayed Allah to forgive the shortcomings of the former Nigerian leader and grant his soul Aljanatu Fidausi. Sympathisers, family members and the entire people of Shagari town were in a mournful mood as the late Shagari’s remains were committed to mother earth at about 3:30pm. His corpse was airlifted to Sokoto from Abuja in a presidential aircraft marked 5N-FGZ, which touched down at the Sultan Abubakar III International Airport Sokoto, few minutes to 1pm. Dignitaries from within and outside the state were at the airport when the state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, and his executive council members received the corpse of the late former president. Dignitaries that attended the burial include a delegation of the federal government led by Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, governors, and traditional rulers from within and outside the state. PMB Orders Flying of Flag At Half-mast For 3 Days Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday directed that flags should fly at half-mast in military and para-military formations, as well as public buildings for three days, starting from today to mourn the late former president, Alhaji Shehu Shagari. In a statement he personally signed, President Buhari also paid tribute to the late former Nigerian leader, saying he represented the last link with the country’s founding fathers. He said, “The late former president represented almost the last link with the government of our Founding Fathers under Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa Balewa. He was also the first elected President of Nigeria. “The late Alhaji Shagari was a man of many parts: teacher, local authority administrator, politician, minister, and finally President. He served his country with dedication and moderation. “Over the years, through interaction at the Council of State, he and I came to understand and appreciate each other, whatever the differences we may have had in the past. “On behalf of the Federal Government, myself and family, I send my condolences to the people of Nigeria, particularly to the late President’s family and the Government and people of Sokoto State. May his soul rest in peace”. Obasanjo, Govs, Others Mourn Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, state governors and other prominent Nigerians yesterday mourned the death of the late former President Shagari who died on Friday at the National hospital, Abuja. In a letter of condolence he personally signed and sent to the governor of Sokoto state, Aminu Tambuwal, Obasanjo commiserated with the people of the state over Shagari’s death. The former president who had earlier called and commiserated with the Shagari family on the loss of their patriarch immediately the news broke further described the late former Nigerian leader as “a man of honour and an achiever”. Obasanjo mournfully eulogised Shagari for the roles he played in the country’s pre and post-independence politics. He stated: “It is with a heavy heart that I am writing to say how deeply grieved I was to hear of the death of His Excellency President Shehu Usman Shagari. “On behalf of my family and on my own behalf, I wish to commiserate with you, the entire members of his family and the good people of Sokoto State over the passing of this humble, patriotic, amiable and notable Nigerian leader. “I would like to express my deep respect for the achievements of President Shehu Shagari in the course of his long life as one of the principal actors in Nigeria’s pre-independence and post-independence politics. “He held various positions as a parliamentarian in the Federal House of Representatives representing Sokoto West in 1954, as a Parliamentarian Secretary 1958-1959, as a Federal Minister and Commissioner in different Ministries and capacities between 1959 and 1975. I remember his role as Commissioner for Finance while he and I served in the government of General Yakubu Gowon”. Also, Zamfara State governor and chairman Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Abdulaziz Yari has said he received with shock the news of the passing away of the first executive president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Alhaji Shehu Shagari. The governor who described the former president as a complete gentleman of the highest order said the emergence of Alhaji Shehu Usman Aliyu Shagari as the president of Nigeria and his contributions to national development had reawakened the virtues of democracy in Nigeria in particular and Africa as a whole. Yari said the former president who devoted his entire life to serving his people, Nigeria and Africa would have his name written in gold in the history of Nigeria, Africa and the world for the wonderful services he rendered in the development of democracy, peace and security, as well as the development of an excellent foreign policy that ushered Nigeria into a harmonious comity of nations. He said Shagari would always be remembered for his foresight, devotion to serving his religion and humanity, as well as African politics, democracy and freedom, particularly in Zimbabwe and South Africa. On his part, Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, expressed sadness over the demise of the late former President Shagari. Ambode, in a statement by his chief press secretary, Habib Aruna, described the late Shagari as a complete gentleman, a thorough bred democrat and philanthropist per excellence who contributed immensely to Nigeria’s growth and development. He said, “The late President lived an exemplary life; he was a democrat and a fine gentle man whose idea of power was that of being a tool to serve his fatherland and humanity. He was an elder statesman in the true sense of the word. “He was also a detribalized Nigerian who was committed to the course of a united, indivisible and prosperous Nigeria. He believed so much in all inclusive governance and was one of those patriotic Nigerians who contributed in laying the foundation of a sustainable democracy in Nigeria”. In the same vein, Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, described the death of Shagari as a huge loss to the nation. He commiserated with Shagari’s family members, the people and government of Sokoto State and Nigerians as a whole. According to a statement by his chief press secretary, Adeniyi Adesina, Governor Oyetola described the former president as a man of honour who lived a life worthy of emulation. The governor said ex-President Shagari demonstrated politics without bitterness when he deservedly awarded the country’s highest national honour of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) to the leader of opposition Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, in 1982. He said although the honour was reserved for only presidents/heads of state, Shagari recognised the contributions of the late sage to nation building by his non-partisan action. Governor Oyetola added that Shagari maintained a dignified posture and respectability out of office. He urged today’s politicians to emulate the attributes of the late former president who served the country diligently and to the best of his ability in various capacities from the pre-independence era through the First Republic and eventually as Second Republic President between 1979 and 1983. Also, Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, described the late Shagari as a man of peace who lived an exemplary simple life style. The governor commiserated with the government and people of Sokoto State, the Sokoto Caliphate and Shagari family on the passing of the ex-President. In a statement signed by his chief press secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, Fayemi said Shagari, through the various positions he held since 1951 when he became the Secretary of the Northern People’s Congress in Sokoto till his presidency between 1979 and 1983, played very significant roles in the socio-political growth and development of Nigeria. “The late Shagari was a true example of a leader who loved peace and pursued it with all his might. Until he breathed his last continued to render invaluable support to successive administrations at the various levels of government in the country”, Fayemi noted. Also, the family of former Vice President Alex Ekwueme who passed on November 19, 2017 expressed sadness at the news of the passing away of former President Shagari. In a statement signed by Ekwueme’s first son, Apostle Goodheart Obi Ekwueme, on behalf of the family and the entire people of Oko in Anambra State, the family extolled the late Shagari as an epitome of high moral leadership, having meritoriously served Nigeria without any blemish whatsoever, a virtue they said he evidently shared with his late Vice, Dr Ekwueme. The Ekwueme family noted that Shagari had the most cordial working relationship with his vice president and both had greater hearts of service for the nation. “They were more Nationalistic in their work relation and even though they both had different religious backgrounds, they were not polarized by the issues of religion and tribe. They were first and foremost Nigerians before Christians or Muslims, Fulani or Igbo. They were both selfless,” the family said. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday expressed sadness over the passing of former President Shagari, describing his death as a national tragedy. The party described the late Shehu Shagari as a man of peace, an exceptionally honest Nigerian, outstanding leader, quintessential administrator and a symbol of national unity, who made immeasurable sacrifices for the development, unity and stability of our nation. A statement by director, media and publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that Shagari’s excellent performance as  political party administrator, member of the House of Representatives, Parliamentary Secretary to Prime Minister Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, variously as minister of Commerce and Industries; Economic Development, Pensions, Works and then Finance; in addition to his service as a governor of the World Bank and member of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) committee of 20, all stood him out for the presidency in 1979. The party noted: “The PDP is therefore, deeply sorrowful that President Shehu Shagari took his bow at the time our nation needs his wealth of experience the most, particularly in the quest to restore good governance, national cohesion and economic prosperity that have eluded us in almost four years. “In all, President Shehu Shagari remains a political colossus and the PDP urges the National Assembly to further immortalize him, by mandating the Federal Government to name a foremost national institution after this great patriot”. For its part, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) yesterday directed all the over 50 parties in the opposition coalition to fly their party flags at half-mast as mark of respect to the late former President Shagari. A statement by the spokesperson of CUPP, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, noted: “We commiserate with the Shagari family, the Sokoto State Government and indeed all Nigerians on such a huge loss of a nationalist and elder statesman per excellence particularly at these very challenging times. We also pray God to grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. “President Shagari was a democrat who believed in the supremacy of the power of the people and only succumbed to the barrel of the gun of people who did not and still do not believe in the tenets of democracy and the supremacy of the rule of law”. Also, the United Progressive Party (UPP) has described former President Shagari as the embodiment of patriotism, humility and integrity. National chairman of the party, Chief Chekwas Okorie, who said the former president didn’t exhibit bitterness in spite of his removal from office through a oup d’état, noted that Shagari was always available to provide advice to subsequent governments whenever called upon to do so. “The late Alhaji Shehu Shagari was an embodiment of patriotism, nobility, integrity and humility. He was a quintessential leader, statesman, administrator and democrat. He served as President of Nigeria from 1979 – 1983 with the fear of God and wise counsel. In spite of his removal from office through a coup d’état, he never exhibited any bitterness. He was always available to provide advice to subsequent governments whenever called upon to do so”. Saraki Leads Senate Delegation to Sokoto Tomorrow Meanwhile, Senate President Bukola Saraki will tomorrow lead many other Senators to Sokoto to condole with the Shagari family, the government and people of Sokoto State, on the demise of the first elected president of Nigeria, Alhaji Shehu Shagari. In a statement issued yesterday by his special adviser on media and publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki likened the death of Shagari to death of a nationalist and indeed the last of the Nigerian titans who directed the affairs of the country in its teething days in the first and second republics as a national loss. “The Senate President will be at the head of a delegation that will visit Sokoto not only to commiserate with the family of the late nationalist but with the people of Sokoto State and the entire country because late Alhaji Shagari represented so many good pages in the history book of our dear country”, Olaniyonu noted. He further quoted the Senate president as saying: “At the most critical times in the life of the nation, Alhaji Shagari was there as part of the group directing the affairs. He was part of the people who won independence from the colonialists, proved that Nigerians could direct the affairs of their country, saved Nigeria from disintegration when the unity of the country was threatened and was the pioneer elected President of Nigeria when the nation first experimented with the presidential system of government. “Even in his retirement from politics, he silently worked for the unity and progress of Nigeria. Alhaji Shagari was a genuine democrat. He had been a stabilizing factor in Nigeria. He deserves a special honour from all Nigerians. Both the Federal and Sokoto State Governments should name befitting monuments in his honour”.