Senator Matthew Urhoghide represents Edo North senatorial district in the Senate. In this interview with RUTH CHOJI, the chairman, Senate Committee on Public Accouns maintains that Atiku Abubakar is the best presidential candidate the party can offer, among other issues. How would you rate the Buhari administration in terms of performance? To be frank, since they say they are fighting corruption scourge in Nigeria, it should have been a side issue because development should be the focus of any government not corruption. While we are fighting corruption, we should have been developing the economy by resuscitating our ailing industries, build infrastructure and secure the country alongside the fight corruption by the side. You don’t abandon development for corruption, but with this government, corruption is at the forefront while development is at the side. What is the mission of this government or what was their vision? Is it corruption, corruption and corruption? Now with TSA, we have been able to gather funds and leakages have been blocked but, what are they doing with the proceeds? We have made a lot of seizures and recoveries by the EFCC and other agencies but what is the money used for? So development should have been the major focus while we are fighting corruption. When you make corruption the issue, everybody is in a frenzy, people who are supposed to express themselves and work are all tensed up and there is a lot of pretences. A lot of pretenders are in this government. It’s not everyone that is in the APC that wish Mr. President well and supports the anti-corruption war. I also don’t believe there are experts driving this economy. The indices are very clear, that we are gradually sliding into recession again. Dangote is not the only person that can run the economy of this country, that he is the richest man in Africa does not mean that it translate to Nigerian economy. What are the plans of this government?  ASUU is currently on strike while NLC is threatening another round of industrial action over non-implementation of the new minimum wage. Does this bother you? It is the mismanagement of our human resources. The workforce is saying they are not happy. We are going to be dragged back when they go on strike. Nobody sits down to quantify how much we lose when the system is shut down because we do not quantify effects along the line of evaluation, that is how you know the caliber of people running the government.  The PDP in Edo state has been out of power for over nine years now. What is the state of the party in the state now? My party is very organised in Edo. I don’t think there is anything the APC can boast of that can return them to the present position they occupy apart from the fact that they can rig the elections. If the people of Edo allowed it to happen, it meant the people have not learnt their lesson. We all have something to lose if we allow this current hardship to persist and all of us will lose. If PDP is given the opportunity to be on the saddle and they don’t do well, Edo people should reject the PDP. Right now they have enough reasons to reject the APC, and the new parties in their current state are not wired to win elections. SDP and APGA cannot win election in Edo and Nigeria because they don’t have the structure to support any mandate Nigerians will give them. I don’t need to pass vote of no confidence in Edo, everybody knows what they have been going through. We in the PDP who are representing them at the National Assembly has shown them the difference. The culture of recycling people who think they can always come back to power must be wiped out of the people’s consciousness. These ‘people’ came to the forefront because when democracy returned in 1999, nobody was sure it will last or that the military will really leave, so all and sundry came and contested for positions but their performance was zero. But now people are beginning to perform because voters have become wiser and more enlightened. Some of us have put up strong representation because we want the people to benefit so that our names will be on the sand of time. Those who spent 12 years and did nothing have their legacies also engraved. Those who will come after me should be new people else the people we represent will retrogress.  The strong man of Edo politics, Chief Anenih recently passed away. What are his impacts on the PDP in Edo state and beyond? Not only Edo but Nigeria. That was one man whose exemplary character is not known to a lot of people. His nature was not known to a lot of people. As an elder statesman, what he envisioned for this country, many people didn’t understand. I used to criticise him in the past when I was in the ANPP, but when I joined the PDP, I realised that this was one man who wanted the right thing to be done. All the time we were there, he will tell us that the recipe to winning is to campaign from house to house. He never said this is how we will rig elections. He was very dutiful, he was close to being a perfectionist. By 5am, he will wake up and tell people to do their exercise first before anything else. He was misconstrued. People from afar saw him as Mr. Fix It, meaning he can turned light to darkness but those of us who were close to him knew that he was a man of possibility. He was very selfless. He has a forgiving heart even those who insulted him, he forgave all of them. Anenih was also generous to a fault. He never gave out money and expect anything in return. He was so selfless that he never brought out his children to take advantage of his position in government or power, rather he took his family behind. All he wanted was to see good governance. When I won my election in 2015 and I was going to court, I didn’t have money after the lawyers told me what I will pay, Anenih came out, negotiated and paid for me even though I wasn’t from his constituency. I was sitting in my house one day when he called and asked me how the campaign was going, he said he will send somebody to me to bring money for me to assist me. Senator Binta Masi Garba told me that Anenih was the first person to have given her money to contest election for the first time. So she said that he was like a father to her. Ask other senators and they will tell you about Anenih. He had respect for constituted authority. Anytime a member or senator visit him, he will see you of. Anytime a government official comes, he will tell others to wait until he has attend to the person in authority no matter the person’s age.  The emergence of Atiku as PDP flag bearer was received with mixed feelings. Were you surprised when he clinched the ticket? Not quite because knowing the personality of Atiku and his pedigree in politics, you knew from day one that he was not going to be a pushover. PDP is a party of experienced leaders. To me he is an old fox in politics, he has built bridges across the country, and he has friends who even though now are in APC, they have connections with him. You can imagine people like the Senate President who was a governor when Atiku was vice president and Tambuwal who was a member of the Hosue then. So for them to dethrone a man like that takes special grace. Yes the tide was moving in their favour but you could see that the last-minute realignment turned things in his favour. So I wasn’t totally surprised but the outcome of it with the benefit of hindsight is seen that, it was just the hand of God. Today everybody has seen that it is the best option that we could have.  The PDP has been out of power at the centre for over 3 years now. What are the chances of the party taking over power in 2019? The chances are very bright. It has not only happened in this country, it happened in Ghana. A political party came back to power after losing it for four years in Ghana. It is the people’s choice that must prevail. The APC cannot be desperate against the wish of the people. We are not in the jungle. People did it to PDP in 2015. If the people decide that they don’t want APC and want another party to come to power, so be it.