Amidst claims that troops were ill equipped to check the excesses of insurgents, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has declared that officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army deployed in the Northeast zone have what it takes to flush out the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists from their hiding places. Buratai made the declaration at the weekend when he addressed troops of the Armed Forces Special Forces Battalion at their base in Borno State. In a statement issued on Buratai’s visit by the director, Army Public Relations, Brig-Gen. Sani Usman, he said that the troops were deployed in the Northeast to fill observed gaps and make a difference in the fight against terrorism and insurgency in Nigeria. Recently, some videos went viral on the social media where troops fighting insurgency lamented obsolete weapons and other logistics issues. But in his address, the COAS said that the soldiers have all it takes to do the job and charged them to work as a team, stressing that the Nigerian Armed Forces have done a great job in the Northeast in terms of degrading the Boko Haram terrorists. Buratai said that the success recorded must be consolidated as troops were adequately equipped, trained and with superior tactics than the terrorists. He further implored the soldiers to take control of the theatre and deny the terrorists freedom of action and movement. The COAS later had a durbar with the troops were they bared their minds on issues affecting them. IGP Deploys 2,000 Mobile Policemen In Northeast Meanwhile, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Ibrahim Idris, has sent an additional 2,000 Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Counter Terrorism Units (CTU) personnel with sniffer dogs to the Northeast to strengthen the fight against Boko Haram insurgency under the “Operation Lafiya Dole”. Force public relations officer, Mr. Jimoh Moshood, said that the new deployment was consistent with Section 4 of the Police Act and Regulations which specify the general duties of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The law stipulates that, “the police shall be employed for the prevention and detection of crime, the apprehension of offenders, the preservation of law and order, the protection of life and property and the due enforcement of all laws and regulations with which they are directly charged, and shall perform such military duties within or outside Nigeria as may be required of them by or under the authority of this or any other Act.” Moshood said that “the deployment is also to support the strength of the military to defeat the Boko Haram Insurgency.” According to him, the Nigeria Police have on ground 47 PMF units comprising 2,961 officers and men in Borno State in addition to the PMF Squadron; 26 units with 1,638 personnel in Yobe State in addition to the PMF Squadron and 18 units of 1,134 personnel in Adamawa State. Moshood in a statement he issued in Abuja, noted that the Counter Terrorism Unit of the Force has deployments of over 1,250 specially trained Counter Terrorism Police personnel, while the Police Anti-Bomb Squad has about 300 personnel and over 100 sniffer dogs, working with the military in the fight against insurgency in the Northeast. He said: “The Police Mobile Force (PMF) personnel, Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Anti-Bomb Squad (EOD), Sniffer Dog Sections, the Federal Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and conventional police personnel have been fighting along with the military in the frontline against Boko Haram insurgency and also providing security for the restoration of law and order in the Northeast, security for all the liberated towns and villages in the Northeast, escort of foreign and local humanitarian workers and relief materials, protection of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps and security of public and private infrastructure. “The police airwing surveillance helicopters and crews are also deployed to support most of the activities of “Operation Lafiya Dole throughout the Northeast in the fight against insurgency in the region,” he said. 2 Suicide Bombers Die In Maiduguri Two suicide bombers on a mission to infiltrate Muna garage in Maiduguri died after hurriedly detonating one of their vests upon sighting troops. The Nigerian Army, which confirmed the incident on its social media handle, said that the suicide bombers (male and female) detonated the vest at about 8pm when troops of 195 Battalion were on patrol on Saturday. The Army said that the patrol team moved to the scene and discovered that it was only the female suicide bombers’ vest that was detonated, killing herself and the male suicide bomber, adding that five members of Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) on duty at the market were injured in the explosion. The wounded persons were rushed to 7 Division Hospital for medical attention. In the statement, the Army said: “The area was cordoned off and the Explosive Ordinance Device Team was drafted to defuse the other unexploded vest, while the Borno State Emergency Management Agency and the Red Cross evacuated the mutilated body parts of the suicide bombers.”