Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed has expressed confidence that the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) will not proceed with its threats to embark on a fresh strike to embarrass the Federal Government. The organised labour on Thursday gave the Federal Government on or before or December 31 to send the tripartite committee report on N30,000 minimum wage to the National Assembly or it will resume its suspended strike. The three labour centres, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the United Labour Congress (ULC) took the decision after a joint meeting in Lagos. The organised labour gave the ultimatum following President Muhammadu Buhari’s statement that a “high powered technical committee” would be set up  to device ways to ensure that its implementation did not lead to an increase in the level of borrowing. But speaking to State House Correspondents at the presidential villa, Abuja yesterday , Lai said he was optimistic that the unions will not do anything that will worsen situation in the country. He said both the government and officials of the NLC were determined to resolved all the issues to avoid any possible strike action again. “The Nigeria Labour Congress is a very patrotic union and I am very confident that they will not do anything that will embarrass the government or do anything that is going to worsen the situation. “Continuous engagement I think is the key, we continue to engage them and I think they do also fully understand what the challenges are. And both parties are determined to ensure that a common ground is arriving at which will be comfortable for all,” he added. Asked to respond on allegations by the President of the Senate Bukola Saraki that the 2019 appropriation bill presented on Wednesday by President Buhari was a hopeless document, Lai explained that it was not in the style of government to join issues with the parliament. Saraki on Thursday said the budget proposal as presented by President Buhari, failed to indicate how it will be funded. The Senate President stated this in Abuja where the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democracy Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was billed to address some Civil Society Organisations, (CSOs). According to the information minister, “It is not the practice of the executive to be exchanging words with the legislative arm of government, they are independent. He said “we are independent but to the best of our knowledge, we presented a budget given the circumstances of our resources this year, we feel that is the best we can. It is left for the National Assembly to consider it,” he added. Lai who wished Nigerians a merry Christmas on behalf of the government, said he was happy that the administration has been able to meet all its promises and obligations to Nigerians. And as the year rolls out, we are more determined to even to deliver more to Nigerians. I wish to use this opportunity to wish everybody merry Christmas and a happy new year. “I made a portrait of Mr. President in five major Nigeria attires, one is in Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, Efik and one in suit. It is reminiscent of the portrait we use during this campaign,” he said.