President Muhammadu Buhari has directed Nigeria’s security agencies to ensure that the will of the people prevail at the 2019 general elections by defending the sanctity of the ballot box. He told his critics not to lose sleep over his repeated promises to conduct credible and free polls next year because “my word is my bond.” Buhari declared that the task of ensuring that the people’s vote counts rest squarely on the shoulders of the security agencies, stressing that he would use the election to prove pessimists wrong that nothing good can come out of Nigeria. In his goodwill message to Nigerians at Christmas, which is celebrated across the world today, to mark the birth of Jesus Christ, Buhari said that insinuations that he would not deliver on his constant assurances to Nigerians and the international community that the general elections would be free were unwarranted. The president said that his resolve to ensure that the polls were “free, fair and credible” was to let the world know that “something good can come out from Nigeria.” He maintained that his avowed commitment to fair and violence-free election was neither a ruse nor “another vain political promise.” Buhari has continued to use every of his public engagement to reiterate his commitment to free, fair, credible elections in 2019. The opposition, especially the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has repeatedly accused Buhari of planning to rig the 2019 elections, citing his refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill to buttress their allegations. But yesterday, Buhari reiterated that his constant promise to make the polls credible is a “sworn declaration on the advancement of Nigeria, the future and safety of young and unborn generations.” He said:  “With the general elections around the corner and heightened political activities across the country, I have charged our security and law enforcement agencies to secure the sanctity of the ballot box and ensure that the outcome of the polls reflects the will of the Nigerian people. “My avowed commitment to free, fair, credible and violence-free polls is not a ruse or yet another vain political promise. My word is my bond. “It is a sworn declaration on the advancement of Nigeria, the future and safety of our young and unborn generations. Let us tell the world that, indeed, ‘something good’ can come out from Nigeria. And it will happen, as we all team up to make it happen,” he said. The president felicitated with all Nigerians, particularly the Christians on the joyous occasion of this year’s Christmas, which commemorates the birth of Jesus Christ. He said: Like I have done in the last three Christmas messages to my fellow compatriots as a serving president, I believe this season is another opportunity to reflect on the imagery of the humble, symbolic and divine birth of a young child thousands of years ago in Bethlehem, Judea, and the message of hope, compassion, salvation, reconciliation, forgiveness and peace that Jesus Christ embodies and conveys.” According to him, in 2018, Nigerians have had mixed blessings, typical of human beings. On the pleasant side, Buhari said that the economy made significant progress since coming out from recession and the faithful implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). The president said: “agricultural revolution has seen a vastly improved local production to the detriment of importation, while we have achieved surplus in our trade balance. Similarly, infrastructural deficit has been greatly reduced with significant improvements in roads, railways, aviation and power. “In addition, we have not relented in the fight against corruption while the business environment has been improved through institutional reforms,” he remarked. On the downside, Buhari lamented that the country had seen so many unnecessary deaths caused by violent clashes between neighbours, who ordinarily should complement and support one another. Noting that the government cannot bring back the lives lost to floods, unfortunate fire disasters, road accidents, farmers/herders’ clashes and insurgency, Buhari stated “we can put back smiles on the faces of the grieving, the displaced and the troubled, if we show a little love and recommit ourselves to building relationships with those outside our ethnic, religious and socio-political divides. “As we celebrate Christmas, exchange gifts, pray and visit loved ones, let us remember many others who cannot be with their families this time. “Our brave Armed Forces, and other security men and women, who make incredible sacrifices to keep us safe, the aged, the sick, physically-challenged persons, all deserve our goodwill in this season of love and sharing. “Together, we can show generosity to our neighbours and demonstrate the diversity that makes Nigeria unique – a land with a beautiful climate and vegetation, beaming with an energetic and creative youth population. “We must not also forget that what lies ahead of us as a nation is better than whatever we must have experienced in the past. Merry Christmas! he stated. 