Former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday said it is unwise to be neutral over whom to support in the 2019 presidential election when the country is being destroyed with incompetence, corruption, lack of focus, insecurity, nepotism and brazen impunity. Obasanjo stated this in a statement by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, while denying media reports that he has decided not to support any candidate for the 2019 presidential election in Nigeria. The former president was quoted in a section of the media as saying he is neutral over who to support in the 2019 presidential election. He was said to stated this while attending the 27th annual Owu National Convention which held in Iwo, Osun State on Saturday. While Obasanjo has since opposed the second term ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari, he endorsed the ambition of his hitherto estranged former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar, after some leading clerics facilitated a reconcilation between them. But according to the statement by his media aide, Obasanjo said,  “It is disingenuous, if not malicious, for anyone to suggest that Chief Obasanjo was being neutral when he chose not to use the Owu Convention as a platform for political campaign but instead adopt a communal and familial approach in talking to members of his Owu family.” The statement added, “For the records, and as accurately reported by some media organisations, what the former president said at the convention in Iwo was that while he would not impress any candidates on them, Nigerians should vote for credible candidates who will drive growth and development and make their lives better than it is now.” He noted that the former president did not suggest neutrality, as he believes that, “only a fool will sit on the fence or be neutral when his or her country is being destroyed with incompetence, corruption, lack of focus, insecurity, nepotism, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious. “Chief Obasanjo is no such fool nor is he so unwise,” the aide said. The former president, added that he will not sit on the fence when he needs to be out and active for people to know where he stands in the best interest of Nigeria. Obasanjo charged Nigerians to get involved  in the process of getting beneficial change and  stop complaining about their current situation. He said Nigerians must know that such “change will not come if they remain inactive just complaining and complacent and they allow themselves to be deceived by sycophants and enemies of Nigeria. “If they do not become active and get much needed change of the current administration to a government that will improve the economy, regain the confidence of investors and generally drive growth, development and economic progress with security, what is coming will be much worse than what Nigerians currently suffer.”