The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt General Tukur Buratai, has urged soldiers to consider Boko Haram terrorists as a band of criminals whose remnants must be flushed out. Buratai stated this yesterday in a Christmas message to soldiers and officers of the Nigerian Army and their families. He said the Nigerian Army had superior training, fire power and experience over the Boko Haram Terrorists, and these should put them in a good stead to defeat the insurgents. The COAS added that the Army has had  a history of successes on the battlefield both at home and abroad and such must be reflected in all its operations. He restated his commitment to ensuring the welfare of families of fallen heroes and urged troops to be wary of the terrorists’ antics of misinformation and propaganda, adding that such was evidence that the terrorists have been defeated. Speaking on the forthcoming general elections, the COAS admonished soldiers to continue to remain apolitical and dedicated to assigned roles in order to preserve democracy. He, therefore, commended the soldiers for their sacrifices. Part of the Army chief’s speech reads: “As you are all aware, the election period is by the corner, hence I am admonishing you to continue to remain apolitical and dedicated to your assigned roles. Let me use this medium to reassure you of the Federal Government’s commitment to your welfare with the requisite support for us to perform our duties. “This festive season heralds peace as well as a time for merriment, sober reflection and introspection.  I enjoin us all to continue to pray to the Almighty God for the repose of the souls of our fallen comrades and for peace in our nation. We will not renege on our promise to cater for the wellbeing of the families of our brave, fallen heroes. I urge all our troops in the Counter Insurgency Operations in the North East to be very wary of Boko Haram Terrorists’ increasing misinformation and propaganda. “It is evident that you have defeated the Boko Haram terrorists. Thus, they have now resorted to employing propaganda in order to demoralise you by spreading false messages of strength and invincibility. “It is pertinent for troops to understand that Boko Haram terrorists are nothing but a band of criminals. Therefore, you must all brace up to clear and flush out their remnants. “We have superior training, fire power and experience. We have a history of successes on the battlefield both at home and abroad.” 13 Soldiers,1 Policeman Die As Troops Repel Boko Haram Attack On Kukareta Base Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army has disclosed that troops of Operation Lafiya Dole on Monday repelled a Boko Haram terrorists’ attack on a Forward Operational Base at Kukareta in Damaturu Local Government Area of Yobe Sttate. A statement by the deputy director, Army Public Relations, Theatre Command, Col Onyema Nwachukwu, said the terrorists attacked the location at about 6:30pm and met with prompt and fierce response of the vigilant troops who engaged and overpowered them, killing several of the terrorists. He said in the first encounter, a soldier was wounded. Col Onyema stated that In another encounter, troops of 1 Division on escort duty along Damaturu – Maiduguri road also fought through an ambush staged by Boko Haram terrorists. He said the gallant troops engaged the terrorists in a firefight, courageously wading through the ambush. “Sadly, 13 military and a police officer paid the supreme price while extricating themselves from the ambush,” he said He noted that the bodies of the gallant soldiers and the policeman and the wounded have been evacuated, adding that the wounded soldier is currently receiving treatment. LEADERSHIP learnt that Boko Haram had in recent weeks stepped up attacks, unleashing violence on the people in the rural areas. The latest attack being the one on Kukareta community in Yobe State. A resident of the village, Malam Yerima, who fled into the bush for his safety told our reporter in a phone conversation that the insurgents came Monday evening and went straight to a military formation located in the village. He said that after few minutes, there was a gun fight at the formation. “We also saw a thick smoke from our hiding place,” he said. “As I gathered, the insurgents also went to the village’s clinic and later set the facility ablaze.” The attack on the town is said to have forced  many locals into nearby bushes “As I am talking to you, many civilians, including soldiers, are in nearby bushes, no one has dared to return to his house,“ he stated. Our correspondent reports that Kukareta village, which is 25 kilometres from Damaturu, the Yobe State capital, had suffered series of attacks at the peak of Boko Haram insurgency. Yobe State commissioner of police, Sunmonu Adeyemi Abdulmalik, confirmed the attack on Kukareta village. NAF Will Remain Focused Until Boko Haram Is Defeated – CAS Meanwhile, the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has reassured Nigerians that the Nigerian Air Force will not lose focus until the Boko Haram insurgency in the northeast is brought to an end. Air Marshal Sadique said this yesterday while celebrating this year’s Christmas with troops on the frontlines fighting insurgency in the theatre of the Air Task Force, Operation Lafiya Dole, in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital At the Christmas lunch organised by the Air Force for the troops, the CAS urged them to continue to work together towards speedily bringing the insurgency to a complete end and assured the personnel of the federal government’s commitment to their welfare and those of their families. Represented by the chief of policy and planning of the Nigerian Air Force headquarter, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Muhammadu Mohammed, the CAS thanked personnel for all their efforts in the theatre, saying that without them on ground , the situation would have been different. “ I want to appreciate everyone of you for all the contributions you have made in the fight against insurgency and operations here. We will not lose focus until the war against insurgency is ended. While thanking God for seeing us alive for this year’s Christmas celebration, I want to thank you, too, for being here for the Air Force “ Celebrating Christmas with you shows that the service recognises and appreciates your daily sacrifices towards restoring total peace to the nation,” he said. In his remarks, the Commander of Air Task Force headquarters, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri, Air Vice Marshal (AVM ) James Goni , said the consistent visit of the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar , to celebrate Christmas and Sallah with personnel was a morale booster and showed the solidarity of the service with the affairs of the troops. “We can only reciprocate the gesture by absolute loyalty – first to the force and Nigeria in general. I commend the men and personnel of the theatre for being able to make this year’s Christmas lunch,” he said.