The Lagos State Police Command has arrested four policemen for allegedly robbing a Togo based Nigerian, Mr Theodore Ifunnaya of the sum of 350,000 CFA. The officers attached to the Ijanikin Division of the command were identified as Inspector Victor Amiete, Sgt Gbemunu Samuel, Sgt  Afolabi Oluwaseun and  Cpl  Adigun  Omotayo It was reported that the suspects were arrested and detained after they robbed the victim at Iyana Era, Badagry areas of Lagos on Monday, December,17,2018, while conducting their stop and search but were transferred to the Provost Section of the Command last Friday for interrogation. Our Correspondent gathered the victim was returning from Togo to spend his Christmas holiday in Lagos and met a tortuous searching and interrogation by the police who later swooped-in on him after they discovered the huge sum of money with him. They were alleged to have bundled him in their waiting patrol vehicle to Ijanikin police Division, where the victim was stripped naked and photographed. According to the victim, after much torture and humiliation, the officers seized his money and invited a bureau de change agent to the Division to exchanged the CFA currency into its naira equivalent. Satisfied that they have subdued their victim with a threat of using his nude photographs on social Media as well as arraigning him  in court for Cultism and Armed robbery, they allegedly released him and gave him N2000 out of his money ,to enable him locate his Lagos residence. Having gained freedom from his alleged police captors, Theodore was said to have narrated his ordeal to his family , who reported the incident to the Area Commander, Area’ K’, ACP Hope Okafor who was said to have intervened by recovering the said stolen money and arresting the erring police officers. The victim in a chat with our Correspondent expressed his appreciation to the Area Commander for her quick intervention and recovery of his stolen money. Theodore said he relocated out of Lagos to Imo State for fear that the colleagues and friends of the officers will come after him.  When the Area Commander Okafor and Ijanikin Divisional Police Officer  ( DPO),  CSP Eugene Ibeiane, were contacted, they declined comments.  Confirming the incident, Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO) Chief Superintendent of Police, Chike Oti, said the arrest was made possible due to the Lagos Commissioner of Police Edgal Imohimi’ s zero tolerance to corruption.  He said the Officers are facing orderly Room Trial and if found guilty, they will be dismissed.  He however denied the report that the victim was stripped naked during interrogation.  