…Urges candidates to abide by Abuja Peace Accord The apex northern socio-cultural organisation, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), yesterday declared that it was not supporting any presidential candidate in the 2019 general election. Addressing the presidential candidate of  People’s Trust, Mr Gbenga Olawepo Hashim, and his entourage during a visit to ACF headquarters in Kaduna, acting chairman of the forum, Alhaji Musa Liman, explained that all the presidential candidates had the fatherly and motherly blessings of the ACF. Liman said: “In our non- partisan disposition, we do not align ourselves with any individual or political party. Rather, we strive to weigh the scale on what is good for the North in particular, and the overall good of the nation. We are not supporting any presidential candidate in 2019, because about four or five candidates are from the north. “I understand that you have availed yourselves to contest for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2019 under the platform of the People’s Trust(PT). I feel quite enthused to acknowledge the emergence of new breed politicians like your humble self vying for the various elective offices in our nascent democratic dispensation which, by and large, has the potential to engender healthy political process as we strive to consolidate on the achievements recorded so far.” The ACF appealed to leaders of various political parties to ensure that they live by the letters and spirit of the Abuja Peace Accord put up by the National Peace Committee under the former Head of State, Gen.Abdulsalam Abubakar,(rtd) which they all signed and pledged to uphold. The forum also urged the candidates to run issues-based campaign and to refrain from all forms of incitement, be it religious, tribal or ethnic both by themselves or agents acting on their behalf. It said: “We urge you to seriously commit yourselves and your political parties to peaceful campaign and strict adherence to the Peace Accord “As you are fully aware, previous elections were marred by violence caused by the behaviour of some members of political parties and their supporters. We cannot afford to have a repeat of such in 2019.” The northern socio-cultural  group also called on the  electoral body and the security agencies to show neutrality in the discharge of their duties in order to ensure free and fair polls. “In this respect, we appeal to the police and other security agencies involved in ensuring peaceful election to live above board and maintain neutrality in the performance of their assignments. “We equally call on INEC to be an impartial umpire in the conduct of the 2019 general elections and ensure that a fair level playing ground is provided to all political parties and their candidates,” the forum said. . …Rice farmers pledge N1.77bn to president’s campaign The president of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, Aminu Goronyo and the president of the Fertilisers Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN), Thomas Etuh, have jointly promised to raise the sum of N1.77 billion to boost the President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election campaign ahead of the 2019 general election. This is as the president has ordered the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to commence the restocking of all strategic grains reserves in the country following the devastating flood that ravaged some parts of the country. The president, who gave the order while speaking at an event organised by the rice farmers in honour of beneficiaries of the Anchor Borrowers Programme at the State House on Wednesday,  said the directive had become imperative following the completion of a comprehensive survey of damage done to farmers and fishing communities in the riverine areas as a result of flood disaster. According to him, the report indicated that over 160,000 farmers and 70,000 fishermen were affected by the disaster. “For about three months, the National Food Security Council working with the National Emergency Management Agency conducted a comprehensive survey of the farmers, fishermen and livestock owners affected by the flood disaster,’’ he said. Buhari, who was honoured at the event with an award of excellence for his administration’s favourable policy that had impacted positively on the country’s agricultural sector, pledged that all the affected persons would be compensated to mitigate their losses. He thanked the organisers of the event and assured them that the federal government would continue to implement policies and programmes meant to uplift the standard of living of the Nigerian farmers as well as boost food sufficiency in the country. President of the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria commended the Buhari administration for introducing the Anchor Borrowers Programme, which was inaugurated by the president on November 17, 2015, in Kebbi State, saying that many of the farmers had been uplifted by it.  “Mr President, with the Anchor Borrowers Programme, many farmers have improved inputs especially fertilizers, seedlings, water pumps etc. “Farmers are benefitting from your administration because rice farmers have transmitted from poverty to wealth,’’ he said. To this end, Goronyo, announced that the 12.2 million rice farmers had pledged their support for the re-election of President Buhari. According to him, the farmers have contributed N100 each, amounting to N1.22billion, to boost the Buhari/Osinbajo campaign for the 2019 presidential election. The president of the Fertilisers Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN), who also spoke at the event, lauded President Buhari for his efforts in the revitalisation of the nation’s fertiliser sector. He announced the contribution of N570 million by the association  towards ensuring the re-election of the president in 2019. The CBN governor, Emefiele, in his contribution, said the Anchor Borrowers Programme had remained the most successful agricultural programme in Africa. According to him, many African countries are now understudying the programme with a view to replicating the success in their countries. “The programme is changing the narrative of agricultural investments in Nigeria. “It has brought the era of food security and sustenance, leading to a cut in forex being used for importation of rice and other food items into the country,’’ he said. He stated the programme had received support from stakeholders across the country including state governors. The CBN governor revealed that the bank was also in partnership with other commodity associations who were working to reduce importation bills and to create jobs. On his part, the minister of agriculture and rural development,  Audu Ogbeh, noted that Nigeria remained the world largest producers of maize, cassava, yam and other staple foods due to the progressive agricultural policies and programme of the Buhari administration.   