The oil and information and communication sectors contributed largely to the growth of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the third quarter (Q3), the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has said. NBS in its current report said that the GDP for the period grew by 1.81 per cent to N18.08 trillion, faster than 1.50 per cent growth to N16.58 trillion recorded in second quarter (Q2) 2018 in real terms. In the latest quarterly report published on its official website yesterday, NBS hinted that the GDP increased by 0.64 per cent points when compared to the third quarter of 2017 which recorded a growth of 1.17 per cent. It showed that the second quarter of 2018 had a growth rate of 1.50 per cent indicating a rise of 0.31 percent points. Quarter-on-quarter, the real GDP growth was 9.05 per cent, the agency said. NBS said: “In the quarter under review, aggregate GDP stood at N33.368 trillion in nominal terms. This performance is higher when compared to the third quarter of 2017 which recorded a GDP aggregate of N29.377 trillion thus, presenting a positive year-on-year nominal growth rate of 13.58 percent.” The agency, which classified the Nigerian economy into the oil and non-oil sectors, explained that the non-oil sector accounted for the increased GDP as it grew year-on-year by 2.32 percent to N16.38 trillion. This was majorly attributed to the double-digit growth, 12.09 percent in Information and Communication sector to N1.91 trillion of which telecoms which accounts for 80 per cent of the sector rose by 14.97 percent. The trade sector, according to the report, rebounded by 0.98 percent to 2.86 per cent (from a 2.14 percent decline in the Q2 2018), while the agricultural sector expanded by 1.91 percent to N5.29 trillion in Q3 2018. Conversely, oil and gas sector further contracted year-on-year by 2.91 percent to N1.69 trillion in Q3 2018 despite quarterly increases in both average crude oil price and production. Much of the outstanding 9.05 per cent quarter-on-quarter GDP growth was propelled by oil sector which rose by 19.64 per cent. The improved 39.56 per cent quarter-on-quarter growth in agricultural sector, despite flooding and attacks on farmers, 15 per cent annual growth in telecoms and a boost in manufacturing, suggests greater diversification of the economy. Commenting on the increased GDP, a research analyst at FXTM, Lukman Otunuga, said the confidence on the recovery of Nigeria’s economy is set to become a dominant theme following reports of the nation’s economic growth accelerating during the third quarter of 2018. According to him, the increase represents an encouraging 0.31 per cent rise from the 1.50 per cent achieved in Q2. Although the primary driver of the economic expansion was increased oil production and prices, signs of the non-oil sector contributing to growth, are a welcome development. He said: “With the non-oil sector growing by 2.32 percent in real terms during Q3, Nigeria continues to showcase to the global arena that it remains on a quest to break away from oil reliance. “With economic growth expected to gain momentum next year on the back of increasing government spending ahead of the presidential election, Nigeria’s outlook remains encouraging. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC’s) deal to cut oil production by 1.2 million barrels a day is seen as offering near-term support to oil – a scenario that will most likely support the government’s revenues and the Naira exchange rate,” he said. Similarly, Prof. Uche Uwaleke of the Department of Finance, Nasarawa State University, described the growth as cheering news because it marked an end to the downward trend in GDP growth since the first quarter of this year. He said that the performance of the non-oil sector where marginal improvements were recorded is in manufacturing; especially cement production, transportation and agriculture. The university don continued: “This outcome may have been helped by the implementation of the 2018 budget which kicked-in at the beginning of the third quarter, the relative stability in the exchange rate as well as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) interventions in the real sector.” Uwaleke however remarked that “the growth is still weak and fragile,” particularly with respect to the sectors which have strong linkages to jobs.” He added that the performance of the financial services sector which is critical to the economy is disappointing. Going forward, Uwaleke said that “there is the need to vigorously implement the capital component of the 2018 budget, invest more in education and health sectors which are lagging behind, tackle the incessant farmers-herders clashes weighing down on food production and enhance access to credit by target beneficiaries of the various CBN intervention schemes. “Overall, improvement in the ease of doing business will go a long way in increasing the risk appetite of financial institutions in Nigeria which will positively rub off on GDP growth,” he stated.