Indications have emerged that members of the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) have rescinded their decision to embark on strike after expiration of the seven-day ultimatum issued to government. This is as the managing director of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC),  Mr. Umar Ajiya, has disclosed that as part of its zero-scarcity strategy, the company has over 170 million litres of Premium Motor Spirit, also called petrol, in stock at some depots operated  by the NNPC across the country  to forestall dependence on private sector depots, especially to avoid scarcity of the product  during the Yuletide season. LEADERSHIP recalls that the MOMAN and the Depot and Petroleum Products  Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN) had notified government of their intention to down tools following the inability of the federal government to pay N800 billion outstanding subsidy debts, including  forex differentials and interest rate component owed marketers. Confirming the oil union’s position to our correspondent on phone, MOMAN’s executive secretary, Mr. Clement Isong, said the marketers held a meeting with government on the issue on Thursday and there was agreement as to how the issues would be resolved. “We had a meeting with government on the issue and there was an understanding, so we are not embarking on any strike. In the near future I hope the issues would be resolved”, Isong said. However, our correspondent gathered that DAPPMA had vowed not to yield any ground as it said it would shut all depots in protest of what it described as  government’s insensitivity. But at the time of filing this report, its position could not be confirmed as the executive secretary of DAPPMA, Femi Adewole, could not be reached on phone. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that the oil  marketers under the aegis of MOMAN, DAPPMA and IPPIS (Independent  Petroleum Products Importers (IPPIs) had complained that government’s failure to meet the deadline to pay N800billion outstanding subsidy claims would force its members to disengage their workers which by extension means that the loading of petrol at depots would automatically cease.