Four suspects who sepecialise in the production of adulterated Dettol disinfectant of various sizes and Air Wick Air freshners were on Wednesday paraded by the Lagos State Police Command. The suspects: Francais Ume; 32, Chidubem Achezie; 44, Peter Ume; 44 and Ejike Jacob 41 were all arrested following a tip off from residents of the Okokomaiko area, along Lagos – Badagry Expressway. The arrest it was gathered followed the tip off gotten by the Divisional Police Officer in Charge of the Okokomaiko Police Division, CSP Aliyu Lukman who mobilized his men to the operational hideout of the suspects before they were rounded up. A truck loaded with cartons of Dettol Antisepetic, Airwick air freshners with an estimated value of over N7 million were recovered from the suspects. Parading the suspects at the Lagos State Police Command Headquarters in Ikeja, CP Imohimi Edgal said the command had made it a duty to fish out manufacturers of products regardless of their hideouts. Edgal said, “The Suspects were arrested in a room where they manufacture the products and then push the fake products into the market. So you can imagine when such Dettol are bought and used especially for medical purpose and it does not work. They will just feel that the original company manufacturing the product have reduced the efficacy, not knowing it is fake.” Admonishing Lagosians, Edgal said, “Everybody must be vigilant especially when buying products like this. Manufactures of product always advise buyers to look out for certain trademark, but because buyers are always in a hurry and sometimes because they find it a bit cheaper, they don’t look for NAFDAC approval, they just buy it, not knowing it is fake.” Speaking on his involvement in the criminal act, Francais said he was only hired to seal the products. When asked who hired him, he kept mute. Chidubem said he had no idea the gang was involved in such illegality saying he had accommodation issues and had gone to squat with Ejike when he was arrested.  