Over 1000 Christian clerics gathered in Jos to pray for a successful campaign and electoral victory for Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The special prayer session which was organised by a group, North Central PDP Coalition For Atiku Abubakar 2019, held at Faith Way Chapel International, Millionaires’ Quarters, Jos, Plateau State. While speaking at the prayer session, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, who is the coordinator for Atiku Abubakar campaign in North Central, represented by his principal special adviser on Special Duty and Administration, Dr Joseph Antyo, said, “In the efforts to install Atiku Abubakar as Nigeria’s next president in 2019, we need God in the project because with God all things are possible. “The choice of Atiku is an effort to rebuild this nation, anchored on his vast experience as a successful private investor and a God-fearing leader. “We want all Nigerians, especially Christians to join us in these prayers by dedicating their time through their various churches to organise prayers for Atiku.” The General Overseer of Faith Way Chapel International, Rev (Dr) Sam T Alaha, who led the Special prayer session said, “It is wise for the Coalition to surrender their political program to God and it is good that the Coalition believes that all powers belong to God and whoever seeks power must come to God for blessings. “Let me use this opportunity to call on Christians not to shy away from politics, because if Christians run away from politics, the unrighteous people will become the leaders of the righteous people. “We will not shy away as a Church from praying for whoever comes to us for prayers, and now that the coalition has come before God to seek His blessings, I will not hesitate to pray for them because whoever seeks shall receive, and whoever asks God to lead them in their campaign, God will certainly take the lead because you have asked from Him.” The church prayed for a peaceful campaign exercise and also prayed to God to anoint Atiku for the nation to experience positive change in 2019. In his remarks, Dr Shima Ayati, SSA to Atiku and the North Central Campaign Director, Atiku 2019, itemised the outstanding qualities of Atiku that distinguish him from other aspirants which have equipped him to lead this country unequivocally. Additionally, the North Central Public Relations Officer of the Coalition, Engr Kangpe A Gugyal, who spoke on behalf of the North Central Coordinator, Chief (Mrs) Diane Lember Abwa said, “The PDP is on a rescue mission because the populace are desirous of a change in leadership of the nation. We have found Atiku Abubakar as someone who has the leadership qualities and the experience to bail the country from the political bondage and economic hardship brought by the present administration.” Goodwill messages were sent by H.E. Sen Jonah Jang(OON), H.E. Amb Yahaya Kwande(OON), H.E. Sen JT Useni(OFR), H.E. Amb Fidelis N. Tapgun(KSM), Hon Chief DT Sango( Plateau PDP Chairman), Hon Chief John A. Akson( Chairman, Plateau PDP Elders’ Forum), Chief(Mrs) Sadiya Hingir, the National Organising Secretary of the National PDP Coalition.  