There was jubilation and high spirit as men and officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) at the liberated North Eastern States of Borno, Yobe, Adamawa, Gombe, Bauchi and others received jumbo arrears of six months salaries and allowances. The payment is in line with the Commandant General’s commitment to boost morale of the officers for them to give in their best to the country in the protection of lives and property during the ember months and New Year festivities. A statement  by Com. Inuwa Sule, executive secretary, WORP and Com. Omede Charles, executive director, GGPI, paid glowing tributes to the Commandant General for deeming it fit at this time to espouse the worker friendly policy of the President Buhari led administration  to enhance the high morale of the Civil Defence Corps. The duo said this singular act of bravery and national patriotism will enhance the welfare of the rank and file, so as to cater for the immediate needs of their families. The statement noted that the gesture will enable the officers to be focused on the task ahead in combating and fighting criminality in the liberated north eastern states especially during this festive period. The civil society duo of Good Governance Project Initiative (GGPI) and Workers Rights Protection Network (WORP) applauded the giant strides of the Commandant General, Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, for the current repositioning and rebranding of the NSCDC for effective service delivery. The duo also commended the helmsman for his efforts in the reduction of criminalities and vandalism of assets across the country. The statement called on sister agencies to emulate the gesture so as to boost the morale of their officers for a hitch free Yuletide celebration. The groups commended the gallantly of the officers in their contribution to the ongoing counter offensive by the military against boko haram in the Northeast. They also congratulated the NSCDC boss for the emergence of the Civil Defence Corps as the overall winners of the Ministry of Interior Games for the second consecutive time. Praising it as a noble and patriotic initiative they said a “highly motivated officer or personnel” which lends credence to the biblical injunction “when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice”.