The Governorship candidate of Imo State chapter of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Senator Ifeanyi Ararume, said on Monday in Lagos that President Muhammadu Buhari is not antagonistic against elected on the platform of other political parties who had keyed into his vision to transform the country. Ararume who stated this while addressing newsmen in Ikeja area of the state noted that the fact that anyone emerged a governor from other political platform apart from the All Progressives Congress does not affect the fortune of the state had been demonstrated in the cordial relationship between President Buhari and the governors of Anambra State, Willie Obiano and David Umahi whose programmes are aimed at boosting economic prosperity of the country. He explained that the attraction for him to contest and become the next governor of the state is because a lot of things are not in proper shape and, saying becoming governor of the state would not add value to him financially or otherwise, but the people of Imo that he had resolved to serve to the best of his ability. The governorship candidate pointedly identified the infrastructural decay in the state currently, saying roads in Imo State were in very poor condition, while education, health, security sectors, among others were poorly serviced, with the state ranking 34th position in the country on the ease of doing business in spite of being properly positioned as the largest oil producer in the eastern part of Nigeria. According to  Ararume, Imo State currently does not have a functional general hospital, saying that not only was the education not free, the content was zero as the teachers’ quality impacting the knowledge was nothing to write home about. “If you go to Imo, all of those things that make me to want to serve, none of them has been addressed. The attraction for me to become the governor is that things are not in proper shape in Imo State, nobody has seriously dealt with the challenges Imo state has. “The quality of education has not improved, they may say education is free but it is not free,” Ararume said, lamenting the quality of some of the teachers, who he stated could not give to their students what they didn’t have. “Look at road infrastructure. You can’t ride a kilometer in Imo smoothly and that’s why the governor said rains in Imo is acidic. I don’t know whether rains falling in Lagos is anything different from one falling in Imo,” he said, just as he noted the absence of any known construction giants in the state like those present in Lagos.  