Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, yesterday threw his weight behind the call on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency in the state. Of late, there had been calls on the federal government to declare a state of emergency in Zamfara State with a view to initiating series of actions that would address the killings in the state, the latest being the appeal to President Buhari by indigenes of the state under the auspices of concerned citizens. The group in a statement they issued on Wednesday maintained that the call for a state of emergency had become necessary because in the last few years, Zamfara has been subjected to massacres and the killing of thousands of innocent citizens, mainly rural folks. Also, in its front page comment published in the July 31 edition of the paper, LEADERSHIP had urged the federal government to quickly intervene and stop the bandits in Zamfara “that kill for sport, apparently because they hardly encounter any resistance or face any consequence”, from the state government. Speaking at a press briefing in Gusau, the state capital, yesterday, Governor Yari noted that he was also in support of a state of emergency in Zamfara provided it would save lives and properties in the state. “I am also in support of the declaration of state of emergency if it will save the lives of people of the state”, he said. The governor warned politicians against politicising the disturbing security situation in the state. He said, “We are talking about the lives of our people and this needs the coming together of all, so that the crisis can end. If the provisions of my office had allowed me to carry arms against the bandits, l would have done so. “But if I am not around, there are capable hands that collaborate with the security team in the fight against the bandits. The security men are doing their best. “But it is sad to know that some of the people involved in the kidnappings are close relatives or associates of the victims, which is part of the reasons the problem is persisting. We must all come together and expose anyone or group that is part of these hoodlums, and we should also pray for Allah’s intervention”.  Northern Youths Divided Meanwhile, youths in the North were yesterday divided over the call for a state of emergency in Zamfara State. While the Northern Youths Assembly (NYA) threw its weight behind the call for the declaration of state of emergency in the state, the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum said they were opposed to it. Chairman of the NYA, Manir Haidara, said the call for a state of emergency was long overdue to avert the wanton killings, kidnapping, raping and maiming of innocent citizens. According to him, NYA is deeply concerned about the prevailing situation as killings have become a daily affair in the state. “This is worrisome as towns and villages are being attacked on daily basis by bandits who kill multiple innocent citizens in the attacks, yet the leadership in the state shows no concern”, he said. Haidara noted that the call by well-meaning citizens in the state and the country in general on the federal government to declare emergency rule in Zamfara State was right. He expressed hope that President Muhammad Buhari would heed the call and seek the National Assembly’s approval. But the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) opposed the call for a state of emergency in Zamfara State, saying it would bring more hardship on innocent citizens. In a telephone chat with our correspondent in Kaduna, national president of the AYCF, Alhaji Yerima Shettima, said that lack of seriousness on the part of government has contributed to the continued killings in Zamfara, adding however that the federal government should find another alternative to ending the carnage. Shettima said, “We reject calls for a state of emergency in Zamfara State. Rather, government should change the security chiefs for new ones that will bring fresh ideas and strategies to end not only Zamfara killings but killings across the country. “The state of emergency will bring more hardship to the innocent citizens because the attackers may not come from Zamfara State. Zamfara people have already suffered a lot and there is no need adding more sufferings to them”.  FG To Mobilise Additional Security To Zamfara Meanwhile, the Minister of Interior, Lt Gen Abdulrahman Dambazau, has assured Nigerians of federal government’s readiness to deploy additional security resources to end the destruction of lives and property in Zamfara State. Dambazau gave the assurance in a statement issued by his press secretary, Osaigbovo Ehisienmen, yesterday in Abuja. The minister expressed President Muhammandu Buhari’s deep concern about the unrepentant attitude of the perpetrators of senseless killings in the state. “We are committed to working closely with the state government to deploy more security resources to the state,’’ Dambazau said. Ehisienmen said the minister was further briefed by heads of security agencies in Zamfara in order to put in place additional proactive measures to restore peace needed to protect agricultural and mining interests in the state.  Only PMB Can Decide State Of Emergency – ACF Meanwhile, the apex Northern socio-cultural organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF),  observed yesterday that only President Muhammadu Buhari can decide whether to declare state of emergency in Zamfara or not following incessant killings in the state. ACF’s secretary general, Mr Anthony Sani, said, “I remember my good friend, Senator Dan Sadau, used to call for a state of emergency in the state way back before the emergence of the APC regime on the grounds that there has been failure of governance in that state and the governor seemed to have countered that by saying the security apparatus were not under his watch and, 8as a result, he could not be held responsible. “I believe the federal government is better placed to know whether a state of emergency is needed or not, considering the experiences in some states of the North East where state of emergency was declared and there was no difference from when there was no state of emergency. “Since the issues border on specialised field of internal security and the president has more information, he is better placed to know whether a state of emergency is necessary or counterproductive”.