No fewer than three persons were killed while several houses, mostly shanties were razed by on Christmas Day following the explosion of a petrol-laden tanker in the New GRA, Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. LEADERSHIP gathered occurred in the early hours of Tuesday when the tanker, suspected to be carrying illegally bunkered petroleum product crashed, spilling its content into a nearby canal. It was further gathered that a spark occurred immediately after the incident resulting in a large inferno that took over the canal, thereby killing three persons and razing all the buildings close to the canal. When contacted, the Rivers State Commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources, Hon. Damiete Herbert Miller, confirmed the ugly development. Herbert-Miller said the driver of the ill-fated tanker managed to escape with the tanker’s truck-head and has been on the run since after the explosion. He commiserated with families of the deceased and victims of the tanker fire incident, adding that the state government will reach out to the deceased families. Meanwhile, the Rivers State government has identified some areas in Port Harcourt, the state capital that are notorious for illegal bunkering activities. These areas include; Ibeto waterfront , Eastern-By-Pass, Abuloma axis, Peter Odili axis, Onne area, Abonnema wharf area, Iwofe area, Taraba Jetty in Borokiri area and Koko Ama, all in Port Harcourt City, Obio/Akpor and Eleme local government areas of the state. The Commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources, Hon. Damiete Hebert-Miller, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt, accused security agencies of being compromised in the battle against illegal bunkering of petroleum products in the state. The statement reads in part: “As a responsible and responsive government, several meetings with major stakeholders involved in Energy and Natural Resources were convoked and still ongoing and so far it was agreed that the hydra-headed matter of illegal oil activities, especially in this yuletide period and its potential negative consequences on people’s lives and environment be tackled head long. “Moving forward, the Rivers State government, through the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, have identified the following areas as being notorious for such illegal activities. “The areas are Ibeto waterfront , Eastern-By-Pass, Abuloma axis, Peter Odili axis, Onne area, Abonnema wharf area, Iwofe area, Taraba Jetty in Borokiri area, Koko Ama and others areas that will be made known soon. “Consequently, buildings in the aforementioned areas where these activities are being carried out will be sealed and their C of O’s revoked. As regards the perpetrators of these illegal activities the Government of the state is all out to not only arrest them, but to also prosecute them. “However, the state government is worried by the alarming complicit activities of some security operatives. Safeguarding the lives and properties of people residing and doing businesses in Rivers State as well as the environment is paramount to the state government and it will not compromise on that front. “We urge the compromised security operatives to be alive to their responsibilities as we will not hesitate to make their names public. “Finally, in as much as the government is investing time and efforts towards lives and properties of its citizenry, it also behooves them to see their safety as sacrosanct and be vigilant in the kinds of products they procure especially inferior and dangerous ones.”  