The strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is a big threat to the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said yesterday. LEADERSHIP reports that over one million ad hoc workers are required by INEC from the federal institutions for the 2019 general elections but the ongoing strike by ASUU could affect the commission in sourcing for those to be trained ahead of the elections. Speaking at a one-day seminar on media and gender sensitive reporting in elections organised by INEC and supported by UN Women and Canada, INEC national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr Festus Okoye, said that unless urgent steps are taken, the strike by ASUU could affect ad hoc staff made up of lecturers in federal institutions, members of the National Youth Service Corps and students of federal institutions. “These categories of ad hoc staff will serve as returning officers, collation officers, supervisory presiding officers, presiding officers and assistant presiding officers. “The bulk of assistant presiding officers will be drawn from students of federal institutions in Nigeria. INEC is presently organizing ROOT training for students in the various institutions of higher learning and it is important and imperative that they are in school for this to happen,” he said. Okoye noted that members of the NYSC alone cannot provide all the ad hoc staff needs of the commission, adding that over 70 percent of ad hoc staff requirement in some states of the federation is drawn from students of federal tertiary institutions. “Hence, the lingering strike by ASUU will no doubt have serious impact on the preparation for the conduct of the 2019 elections. “We therefore call on the Academic Staff Union of Universities and the federal government of Nigeria to quickly and genuinely resolve the lingering impasse that has led to uncertainty in the education sector. “The national interest, the interest of our democracy and the reputation of Nigeria demands the immediate resolution of the issues that led to the strike,” Okoye said. INEC advised that students of federal tertiary institutions should and must be in school at least a month before the February 16 presidential and national assembly elections. “They are a critical resource and their absence will have adverse effect on the ad hoc requirements of INEC,” Okoye added. The deputy director, Gender, INEC headquarters, Mrs Blessing Obidegwu, expressed worry that the male politicians often get more time in the media than their women counterpart. She explained that the programme was organised for media practitioners to encourage gender reportage. “Male-dominated media coverage or reporting of electioneering activities tend to exacerbate gender stereotypes which further dampen the prospects of improving women’s political visibility and fair representation in the elective positions. “Skewed representation along gender lines significantly affects the outcomes of election in general,” she said. According to her, to ensure equitable and equal participation of stakeholders in elections, INEC supported inclusive participation of all players in all stages of the electoral process.