The governorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Nasarawa State, Mr Labaran Maku, has dismissed his political opponents as unpopular, saying they can only be seen on billboards and posters. Maku stated this in New Karu, Nasarawa State when he met and solicited the support of Akwa Ibom State indigenes resident in the state. “When we stand on the same line with them (opponents) anywhere we go, the difference is clear. Put them all the other candidates and I am sure some of them you don’t even know their names. I am actually contesting this election against billboards. Those people are only on billboards but they are not on ground. “When we go to the villages, they don’t know them, when we go to town, nobody knows them. They only remain consistent on billboards,” he said. He further said he owes the people of the South South Region a debt of gratitude particularly for their son, former President Goodluck Jonathan, who gave him the opportunity to serve Nigeria as minister. “Every nook and cranny of this country they know who Labaran Maku is, not because of anything but because of the grace of God and because of the support I got from the South South through my former boss, who remains my leader forever, President Goodluck Jonathan. “He lifted me to become the minister of the Republic and gave me the opportunity to serve this country at the national level. I served as the spokesperson of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as the minister of Information and Communication and later minister of Defence. That was made possible because of one son of Nigeria from the South South,” he stated. Maku, who was a former deputy governor in Nasarawa State and former minister of Information and Defence, told the people of Akwa Ibom State that their votes for him will not go unrewarded if he is elected as governor of Nasarawa State. He hailed the people for their courage of conviction towards the development of Nasarawa State and pledged to create a peaceful atmosphere that will make Nasarawa State the melting pot of Nigeria because of its proximity to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. “Please Akwa Ibom people every vote that you will give to me will count and I am begging you for that vote. Give me that vote please so that we can move forward together. I am grateful and some of you by the grace of God will be employed in the government,” he said. He said if he is elected the governor, he will block all leakages in the finances of Nasarawa State in order to ensure that government funds trickle down to every facet of the economy so that businesses of all the people in the state will thrive. Maku, who is the national secretary of APGA said under his leadership, state’s funds will not be siphoned and lodged in banks abroad, instead, they will be deployed to improve the lives and social well being of people living in the state. He said at the moment, Nasarawa State needs a leader with a vision, who can promote unity in diversity in order to attract investment to the state.