Faced with the reality and unbelievable number of people getting more malnourished and starving to death due to poor nutrition and health care amidst other challenges on daily basis, the Wasa Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in The Federal Capital Territory, has embraced subsistence farming as the last resort for their survival. For them, being displaced since April, 2014 from their various states, sustainable livelihoods remain a major challenge and basic needs such as: food, water, health facilities, education, security and electricity become things in the abstract world. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that there is a sudden shift towards farming of beans, maize, and corn in the camp as a means of survival and consumption to IDPs in the camp. The camp housed no fewer than 5121 persons. Few hours after arriving at the Wasa IDP camp, located in Waru ward of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Sani took a call from his co-displaced person that went to the farm. “You mean our crops are damaged again,” he said speaking in Hausa language. This is really inhumane after spending all our savings and energy to ensure that our crops grow. “They have to put a stop to this,” says his wife, Binta, bluntly. “I don’t know how we are going to afford to buy the seedlings next year or feed our children. Who will help us out of this deplorable situation?” She lamented. Mallam Sani escaped the deadly Boko Haram rebellion in his home state of Borno more than three years ago. “I used to be a farmer in Kondunga village. They attacked my village and seized all my harvest. I had 100 bags of beans and 50 bags of corn in my village, prior to the attack,’’ he said. Narrating his ordeal in Abuja with our correspondents, he listed his problems which include: poor security in their farms, poor healthcare facility and little support for clothing and food, untold hardship which makes life unbearable for them. He said if attacks on their farms are few they sometimes get good harvest but most times their crops are damaged by Herdsmen. ‘’Sadly we are helpless, we are using this medium to call on federal government to help salvage this deplorable situation and help improve our livelihood, we are peace loving people and that is why when we are chased out of our communities in 2014 we seek succor here,’’ he said. He explained that displaced persons now find it difficult to feed, because donations from public-spirited people and organisations had dried up. He added that their effort to carry out farming activities this farming season was hampered by lack of money to procure seeds and other inputs, which according to him, were prohibitive. “You know that we were mainly farmers in our states; farming is the only thing we know how to do. But now, hunger is our biggest threat in Abuja. Many of us have gone to Nasarawa state and got land; we have even cleared them but we don’t have the money to buy seeds to plant. ‘’Our greatest fear is Herdsmen attack. Government should look inward to help salvage this situation. We witnessed crisis in our community before coming to Abuja. Using guns and cutlasses to threaten someone is not a good way of life,’’ he added. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday, chairman, Wasa IDP Camp, Geoffrey Bitrus told our correspondents that with the untold hardship the IDPs face regularly, they were left with no option but to approach some members of the community to acquire land for farming. He explained that the farm land which was acquired for all kinds are majorly beans and groundnut. Bitrus while lamenting over lack of access to health care facilities and proper education, said  the only existing health facility serving the people was donated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara but there are not enough drugs. “If we see a stranger like this we use to lay our complaints to them so that they can help us to call the attention of other people. These days we don’t even see the visitors because we are outside the town,” he said. The chairman cried out over the uncertain future of their children as acquiring education is becoming a mirage. “About education of our children, honestly we do not have money to pay the tuition fee of our children especially those in secondary schools, because most of our children before we came here graduated from primary school already. Some have even finished their junior secondary school (JSS) three before they came here. “In our place the school fees was only N300 per term, but here even to get admission in this FCT is a problem to us. We cannot afford it because if you go before they give you admission, it is N18000 and above. And we don’t have anywhere to get that money. We have a government secondary school here but even to pay PTA is problem,” he lamented. Our correspondents however, gathered that the entire camp has one primary school and the nearest route to the secondary education is Kabusa and Waru, which the refugees complain they do not have the means to sponsor their children to, going by the distance. Agonising over lack of social amenities particularly water, he stated that only two boreholes out of the five boreholes in the camp are functioning, adding that the few functional boreholes cannot sustain the population. He further called on the government to help mobilise people that will teach them skills acquisition in the camp especially the women, youths and some men. He continued, “We are also having issues of security especially, this year because our people farm very well and you know that in this farm we eat, use proceeds to buy cloths and even to use to buy medicine. “So some of our people have big farms and we are getting a serious challenge between the farmers and the herdsmen, even in the night they come to feed on our farm so we need a security here. Before we came here there were police guiding this settlement and they are not enough. They are not more than six and they are still doing shifts. “Because here, all these herdsmen from Jos, some Benue and Nasarawa they came through here and when you see them in your farm and ask them to go out they become hostile. We need security.” The chairman who is also a farmer said he started farming with nine hectares of land with massive yields so that he sold some and kept the rest for consumption. “We want to return to our homes, but the armed group continues to wage its violent campaign. We believe Boko Haram will be a thing of the past one day,’’ he said. Speaking to our correspondent during a visit to the camp on the new development, the spokesman and secretary of the camp, Usman Alhaji Ibrahim who himself is farming on a large scale for survival said they are facing many challenges like health facilities, water, feeding among others. Ibrahim who is from Gwoza local government of Borno state called on the government to come their rescue. “We are still pleading with government to come and help us for the farming because we are farmers. Since we left our place even now we do many types of farming like corn, beans, maize and whatever. So we need government to help us with farm materials to feed ourselves. “It is not our choice that people are coming here to give us food, if government can give us farm tools, we can feed ourselves. “We do not have enough water for drinking and the generator here has collapsed, it is not working now, so we are suffering and this place is too large. We have five boreholes here but currently, only two are working and they are not enough to serve a population of over 5121 here. We have 1119 women, 2523 children under the age of 15 years and over 330 youths as guide. “We are farming for commercial and human consumption. If we sell we can buy some foodstuff. For example, most of our people do not know how to farm maize here because we were not farming it there in Gwoza. So, if they cultivate beans they are going to sell it in the market and buy corn or maize for consumption. So basically, we are growing beans for sale,” he said, commending the speaker of the House, Yakubu Dogara and Hajiya Sadiq Umar, the commissioner for National Commission for Refuge, Abuja and other NGOs who have been assisting them on several occasions. According to him, “We pay Gbagi indigenes for the land we are using. We are giving them little money. The size of my land for instance is 3.75 hectares while some are using like 9 hectares. We have health workers from AMAC working with us and they come here often but there is one volunteer that is sleeping here. It has been like two years since he has been living here with us.” He added that the only thing keeping them from returning to their homes is the issue of Boko Haram. “Now you can’t go to our village which is Ngoshe because Boko Haram occupied it. If not it is not our choice to stay here.” LEADERSHIP Sunday investigations further revealed that life has been unfair to the IDPs, as they also have to transport their harvest to Nasarawa before getting anybody who can buy their food stuff. “We are calling on government to come and help us with agricultural material. Secondly, we have problem of water and still we have challenge of school. There is no secondary school here. All our children when they finish primary school do not go to secondary so this is a great challenge because no one can survive without education. We also have a challenge of health facilities, nobody is giving us drugs and we do not have money to buy drugs. If you have money there is a local Chemist here. We can return to Gwoza if there is peace,” he added. The health practitioner in the camp, Mr Manessah Daniel who has been working as a volunteer for two years in camp said the life has not been easy.  Since the beginning of the insurgency, government has been providing for the humanitarian needs of IDPs in all designated camps: Borno; Yobe; Adamawa states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In spite this, the internally displaced persons continue to lament over negligence. 