The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has said that it would not be a party to the planned strike by other oil marketers. The marketers, including Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA) and the Independent Petroleum Products Importers (IPPIS) had given the federal government a seven-day ultimatum, threatening to shut down depots across the country. The marketers claimed that the federal government is owing them a total of N800 billion Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF). However, the IPMAN, through its Kano State chairman, Bashir Ahmad Dan-Mallam, on Monday,  said it would not join any strike action that was capable of inflicting hardship on Nigerians. According to Dan-mallam, the federal government is also owing IPMAN about N150 billion , but the association was not threatening any action against  the government. He maintained that the aggrieved oil marketers should rather engage the federal government in dialogue in order to resolve their differences amicably, noting that, the debt was inherited from previous administrations. He boasted that even if the oil marketers insist on the strike, the public should not panic as all the depots across the country are filled with the premium motor spirit (PMS), also known as petroleum. “All the depots in Kano, Minna, Warri and other places across the country are filled with petroleum that is enough for the consumption of the people throughout this festive period and even beyond. “So, let me use this opportunity to call on the general public that they should not panic about petroleum scarcity as we, the IPMAN, will not join the strike. “We are not praying for any action capable of inflicting hardship on the public. We have enough petroleum in our depots. So there is no course for alarm,” he said. Dan-Mallam also called on the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to stop supplying petroleum to those associations that threatened to embark on strike.