Service Chiefs comprising the Chief of Defence Staff, Gabriel Olonisakin; the Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok Ekwe Ibas; the Chief of Army Staff, Lt General Tukur Yusuf Buratai and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, yesterday, stormed Maiduguri,the Borno state capital in a bid to assess the ongoing war against Boko Haram terrorists and restrategise on how to deal a final blow to the terrorists. This is even as the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) revealed how it collaborated with Allied forces and troops of Operation Lafiya Dole to defeat the members of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) alongside Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) in the battle for Baga. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that after their arrival at the Nigerian Air Force Base, Maiduguri, the service chiefs proceeded to the theatre command of Operation Lafiya Dole for an indoor meeting with the theatre commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General Benson Akinroluyo and other senior military officers in the Command. In the same vein, the Chief of Defence Staff , General Gabriel Olonisakin commended troops of operation Lafiya Dole for dealing decisively with the boko haram terrorists in Goniran , Baga  , Monguno and other areas that recently came under attacks. The commendation of the defence Chief was extended to troops in Maiduguri through the director Army public Relations , Brigadier General Sani Kukasheka Usman who briefed Journalists after a closed door meeting with the service Chiefs who he said were in Maiduguri for operational visit. After the marathon meeting which lasted for over four hours, the Army spokesman said the essence of the service Chiefs visit is to access the situation in the theatre and listen to the Commanders. Brigadier General Usman said :” They were equally briefed by the Theatre Commande and some of the other Commanders in the Theatre.They also came with various Chiefs of trainnings and operations from the defence headquarters, Army headquaters , Air Force headquaters and Naval headquaters. “The Chief of Defence Staff specifically Commended the doggedness of troops for what they have been doing especially for rising up to the task of dealing decisively with the boko haram terrorists, first in Gonori and yesterday in Baga and Monguno , and encouraged them to do more. “ And beyond that there were issues that were raised in respect of government’s effort to support the efforts of the troops which is ongoing. “ And some of the Commanders has been tasked to see how best they can do to enhance their performance . We will continue to give you up-to-date information as time goes on”, he added. Meanwhile, in a statement issued yesterday, by the director of Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore Ibukunle Daramola, over air assault that led to the defeat of the terrorists in Baga, he said: “It may be recalled that the Headquarters of 7 Brigade Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), Baga came under attack by members of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) on the evening of 26 December 2018. “Upon receipt of the information of the attack, the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole immediately dispatched a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) platform along with two Mi-35M Helicopter Gunships to provide support for troops to repel the attack. “The NAF ISR aircraft, which was overhead the troops’ location as at 7.15pm, also worked closely with the Nigerien Air Force and another allied ISR aircraft that were also in the operation area at the time of the attack. “The ISR platforms were in contact with the ground troops and assisted in directing their fire against the terrorists, while the helicopter gunships engaged the terrorists at isolated locations destroying some of their vehicles and neutralising some fighters. “The ATF also provided support for Nigerian Army (NA) and Nigerian Navy (NN) troops at the naval base at Doron Baga, which equally came under attack by ISWAP fighters on the morning of 27 December 2018,” the statement reads. It further revealed that the ATF deployed two ISR platforms, two helicopter gunships and two Alpha Jet aircraft to provide ISR and close air support to the troops. After establishing communication with the ground troops, the location of the terrorists was ascertained and engaged by the Alpha Jet aircraft. The statement stressed that  the NAF and allied ISR platforms also spotted two ISWAP vehicles heading southwards from Baga and vectored the Alpha Jet aircraft to attack the vehicles, completely destroying one of them and neutralising the occupants. “In order to enhance the quality of coordination between the air and ground operations, the Theatre Commander and Maritime Component Commander were carried onboard the ISR platform during one of the flights. In all, the ATF conducted 20 missions in 21 sorties with a total of about 39 hours flown on 26 and 27 December in support of operations in Baga general area. “The NAF appreciates the existing synergy with our gallant surface forces as well as our regional allies in adding value to our collective efforts to protect our territory and people,” the statement further reads.