As Christian faithful mark the birth of Jesus Christ today, several prominent Nigerians, including Senate President Bukola Saraki, his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu, Speaker Yakubu Dogara, and some state governors have felicitated with Nigerian Christians on the joyous occasion. Saraki,  in a statement by his special adviser, Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja, congratulated Nigerians for their resilience in the face of the challenges facing the nation and urged them to pray for improvement in the social, political and economic condition of the country in the New Year. According to Olaniyonu, Saraki urged Nigerians to make it part of their New Year resolution that they will play their constitutional roles to ensure that the country has a peaceful, credible, free and transparent elections in February and March 2019. “I wish all Nigerians a merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year. I want to call on Christians, in particular, and Nigerians, in general, to emulate the virtues of Christ, who through self-sacrifice brought salvation to humanity. “This is a time for us to be our brother’s keeper, extend our generosity to one another and ensure that the less-privileged among us are not left out of the ensuing merriments”, he stated. …Ekweremadu Urges Nigerians to Embrace Christ-like Virtues On his part, Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu urged Nigerians to imbibe the virtues of love, fairness, selfless service, and commitment to public good as exemplified by Christ in order to ensure hitch-free conduct of the 2019 general elections. In a statement by his media adviser, Uche Anichukwu,  Ekweremadu said: “The forthcoming general election is critical for the survival and deepening of democracy in Nigeria. So, I believe that embracing the Christ-like virtues of love, peace, fairness, and selfless service to fatherland is key to eschewing the desperation and pursuit of narrow interests that fuel vote-buying, intimidation, and other electoral manipulations that in turn trigger electoral violence.”  Love, Solution To Humanity’s Problems  – Dogara For the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Nigerians ought imbibe the spirit of the season, which is the love of God for humanity. In a  Christmas message to Nigerians signed by his media aide, Turaki Hassan, the speaker noted that it was because of the love of God for humanity that He allowed His son to come into the world for the ultimate goal of redemption, saying such selfless love is what Christians should reflect in their dealings with one another. He  further stated that God’s solution to humanity’s problems is love, adding that embracing God’s love will put an end to wanton killings, ethnic and religious clashes and other evils  that retard the growth and development of the country.  …Mark Preaches Peaceful Co-existence For his part, former Senate President David Mark reiterated the need for peaceful coexistence between and among Nigerians irrespective of ethnic or religious leanings. In his goodwill message to Nigerians commemorating this year’s Christmas celebration, Senator Mark urged citizens to be guided by the lessons of the Christmas season which is anchored on love, forgiveness and peaceful coexistence. Senator Mark, in a statement signed by his media aide, Mr Paul Mumeh, yesterday in Abuja, said, “We must as a people strive to imbibe the culture of mutual respect, trust and unity as the antidote to the myriads of problems facing the nation.” He implored citizens to shun those mundane issues such as ethnicity or religious discriminations that tend to threaten the peace and unity of the country.  ..Ambode, Oyetola Preach Love, Kindness To Less Privileged In Lagos, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has urged Nigerians to seize the symbolic occasion of Christmas to extend acts of love and kindness to all mankind, especially to the less privileged in the society. Ambode, in his Christmas message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Habib Aruna, said the qualities that Jesus Christ represents, which include love, care, selflessness and compassion for persons, especially the weak, vulnerable and the less-privileged, were the real essence of the season, adding that his message to everyone at this period is to put a smile on the faces of persons who cannot afford to return the favour. He said, “Christmas means so much more than just mere merriment. It is a veritable avenue to extend love to the less-privileged who are disadvantaged in several ways. In this special season therefore, I urge you all to spread love and be our brother’s keeper. Let us reach out to those who struggle to provide for their families. Let us put smiles on the faces of the weak and vulnerable. This is the real essence of Christmas.” In the same vein Osun State governor, Mr Gboyega Oyetola, enjoined the citizens of Osun State to continue to live in harmony and embrace peaceful co-existence among themselves because Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace. The governor, in a release signed by his Press Secretary Mr. Adeniyj Adesina said: “We should allow Jesus’ message of love, peace and humble living to be our guiding light. I urge you to show love to your fellow citizens as you go about celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ.’’ ..Ahmed Rejoices With Christians In Kwara State, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed urged Christians to allow this year’s celebration of the birth of Christ to rekindle, strengthen and reaffirm their faith in government’s ability and willingness to overcome all challenges. In a statement by his chief press secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, the governor advised Kwarans to reflect more deeply on the virtues and ideals which the Messiah espoused during his earthly mission. “Let us be more statesman-like, conduct issues-based campaigns, and eschew promotion of falsehood, division and hatred of others as we seek the votes of our countrymen in what should be a peaceful competition among contending points of view for the progress and development of our dear nation”, the governor said.  …Fayemi Preaches Peace,  Approves Reopening of Broadcast Station In Ekiti State, Governor Kayode Fayemi has urged the people to continue to live by example in matters relating to love, peace and progress. The governor also gave approval for the state’s broadcasting service to commence operation on January 1, 2019, following its re-opening by the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC). The governor, in a Christmas message signed by his chief press secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, said it is only through a practical demonstration of love, peaceful co -existence with one another that Nigerians can unite and forge ahead in the crucial task of nation building. He said: “Christmas is the season of love, joy, generosity and forgiveness. While we celebrate with friends and family, we should also reflect on our individual contribution to the peace and progress of our immediate community and the larger society.” LEADERSHIP recalls that the state-owned broadcast station was ordered shut by the NBC on July 15, 2018, for various infractions including unauthorised airing of results of the July 14, 2018 governorship election in the state. The re-opening is sequel to the submission of report of the panel set up by the state government to look into the remote and immediate causes of the closure as well as Governor Fayemi’s intervention. Consequently, the governor approved January 1, 2019 commencement date, and directed that all arrangements for the re-opening be concluded within the next one week.  ..Al-Makura Urges Sustenance Of Peace In Nasarawa State, Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, enjoined the citizens of the state to emulate the life of Jesus Christ, who is reputed to be the Prince of Peace and by his example “let all citizens take ownership of building and sustaining peace in our own society.” In a statement signed by Yakubu Lamai, the director general, Strategic Communication and Press Affairs, the governor urged the the entire people of Nasarawa State to adopt the life of peacemakers in this Christmas season and beyond.  … APC Seeks Prayers For Country, Leaders On its part, the ruling nAll Progressives Congress (APC) has urged Christians and indeed all Nigerians to use this year’s yuletide season to pray for the peace of the country. Part of the party’s Christmas message, which was signed by the APC national publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, reads: We should also emulate the virtues of Jesus Christ exemplified by self-sacrifice. The party calls on Nigerians to use the joyous occasion to pray for our leaders and the peace, progress and socio-economic development of our dear country.”  Atiku, Secondus, PDP Preach Peace, Urge Prayers The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and the national chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus yesterday urged Nigerians to live in peace with one another in the spirit of Christmas. In same vein, the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has charged Nigerians to use the occasion of this year’s Christmas to pray for the nation and focus on their collective resolve to vanquish oppressive forces and build a peaceful, united and prosperous country, where all citizens will live without fear. In his message, Atiku urged Nigerians to pray for the nation’s military and security forces who are at the frontlines on the war on terror. He said Nigerians should think about the members of the Armed Forces “who make the relative peace we live in possible. They endure so that we all can enjoy. Because they gave their all, we all have some peace.” He noted that since the essence of Christmas is Christ reconciling us to God, Nigerians should as well reconcile with one another during this Yuletide period. “There are too much divisions in our nation today and it is up to each and everyone of us to inject the healing and unifying serum of love for our neighbour into the nation’s consciousness this Christmas,” he added. In his own  statement released by his special adviser on media, Ike Abonyi, Secondus said: “We need political leaders that can bring smiles on the faces of the people and such leaders can only come from God through our sincere supplications.” The PDP national chairman noted that the 2019 general elections provides Nigerians the opportunity to rescue not just our democracy but the country. “The indignation in our faces across board shows it all that the people are sad and disappointed; let us therefore pray for a peaceful election to usher in joy in the land,” Secondus added. A statement by the director, Media and Publicity of PPCO, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the birth of Jesus Christ, the Saviour, signifies the triumph of light over darkness and offers Nigerians the new hope and spiritual impetus in their shared quest for a brighter future for the ation under a new administration. He said, “The PPCO laments the ugly situation in which Nigerians cannot celebrate a wholesome Christmas as they used to do prior to the emergence of the Buhari presidency in 2015. “PPCO however charges  Nigerians not to despair as the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, whom they have resolved to elect as their new President, has already perfected templates to revamp our economy and ease suffering in our nation. “Nigerians should therefore celebrate this year’s Christmas focusing on the brighter future that awaits our nation under Atiku Abubakar as the next president and not on the pessimism and promise of more suffering by President Buhari.”