He inherited a party that was almost impenetrable, the bond amongst members was watertight and healthy consensus was the guiding code for the All Progressives Congress (APC), then like a thunderbolt came comrade Adams Oshiomhole, shattering the peaceful foundation of the party and since then, it has been endless rains of misfortunes, bickering and battles of long knives. Riding like a ramrod with a defined mandate not to build or sustain an existing ethos but dismantle all the party had painstakingly achieved. APC under the Comrade Chairman is in shambles; its members are hovering like homeless orphans in a rudderless voyage. Unless something is done fast, the party may cease to exist after the 2019 elections. The party presently lacks any form of cohesion, there is no synergy whatsoever and the chairman is forever on a high horse riding in obstinate vigour.   All is tragically not well with the Adams Oshiomhole-led APC; the party is now a shadow of its old self, following avoidable traces of official high headedness, impervious impunity, lack of inclusiveness and dictatorial leadership. Constricted grumbles abound even among leadership of the party. Unconfirmed report has it that no dime has been released for the day to day running of the party secretariat since the present party executives were sworn in, even offices aren’t furnished neither are party officials carried along on party affairs, the chairman is running the secretariat like an emperor. Sensing the cold blood between the APC leadership and some governors under the APC, the supremacy wit among the party leadership and Rotimi Amaechi-led Buhari Presidential Campaign, the handlers of the president had to use their tongues to count the number of teeth in their mouth by taking up the official campaign of the president. Recently, the Buhari Support Organisation (BSO) showed the world its readiness to sell the president by organising a dinner tagged, ‘Together Nigeria’ at the presidential villa where it literarily brought together almost the topnotch celebrities in the entertainment industry. Something happened, neither Rotimi Amaechi nor Oshiomole played any role at the villa, it is clear signal that the president is likely not interested in the showmanship of the party structure.   The governors are more disgruntled with the leadership of the party chairman; the aftermath of the party primaries has wrought in the reign of cold war and sometimes open confrontation with the party hierarchy. From Ogun State to Zamfara, through Imo to Niger, it is the same tale of constricted anger. The case of Niger State senatorial primaries where winners were supplanted with losers is a near case in reference. The voters there are so embittered and have vowed to wreak electoral havoc on the party. So aggrieved are the people that the governor of the state, Alhaji Abubakar Bello, warned the reconciliatory committee set up to intervene in the self-inflicted impasse to shelve their planned visit to the state as he could not guarantee their safety. This frightening advice is same everywhere including Imo State where Governor Owelle Rochas Okorocha has been edged out of the party- a party he defied personal attacks to build in the state. Even if the aggrieved parties were willing to sheath their swords, would the alleged dogmatic posture of the chairman encourage this overture? There is so much obstinate posture at the domain of the party echelon. Indeed, emotional intelligence is very key in managing human resources, this principle, one can conveniently say, is lacking in the leadership baggage of the APC family. There are no synergies in the dynamic template of the party, the chairman flaunts presidential interventions and holds firm to his own convictions even in the face of monumental error. So shocking was everyone when the party threatened aggrieved members from seeking judicial redress until the president stopped the party’s pugnacious stance, the same way the party leadership defied other presidential directives. The political impetuous attitude of the APC leadership doesn’t augur well with a party that prides its president in cultivated integrity, fairness and justice. Before it is too late, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole must discard the combative template, go to aggrieved party members, especially the governors and make peace, as leadership is defined only when you provide solutions to problems. So far, the chairman hasn’t demonstrated fairness in his dealings especially with the handling of the party’s primaries. Otherwise as witnessed thus far, we are approaching where the party may not have political influence but a mere platform for political aspirations. So far, we can see how President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 re-election bid is being anchored overwhelmingly by his retinue of supporters – very die-hard minds, the GOGAN group, the #Webelieve group and the new entrant Buhari Support Organisation and amongst other spirited supporters. In all of these, the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led party secretariat is nowhere in sight with influence as Buhari’s return to Aso rock births in 2019.