Senate president,Dr. Bukola Saraki, has declared that the leaders of the Peoples DemocraticParty (PDP) in Kwara State and other states of the federation have what it takes to win next year’s general elections. Saraki, who is the PDP national leader, said that the party would not only sweep the elections in Kwara but would “win the presidential election by the grace ofGod.” He therefore asked his supporters not to be afraid of the use of federal might in the forthcoming polls, pointing out that he had confronted such situations in two previous elections and floored the incumbents. Saraki spoke yesterday at the inauguration of a 42-man campaign council for the state PDP at his constituency office, Ilorin, the state capital. The Senate president said that while the 2019 elections, like the previous one, have their challenges, experience had shown that with the right tactics and strategies,the PDP would win in the state again. He said:”Don’t be afraid, I have heard all the talks of the opposition about using federal might.  But, we have seen it all.We saw it in 2003 and 2015 or don’t you know that they used federal might in2015? It was you that God used then and in 2019 with those who have come to join us we will defeat them again.” Saraki charged members of the campaign council to be faithful in the discharge of their duties to achieve the desired results. The Senate president recalled that the Mandate Office had been the platform for every electoral victory of the party since 2003 and expressed the confidence that God is with his political structure to win the next polls. According to him, “every election has its challenges. But, we have what it takes to tackle them and once you are committed, victory is ours,” and tasked the party on the need to implement a rigorous campaign to ensure that the grassroots is reached. While recounting his political travails since the All Progressives Congress (APC) wont he 2015 general elections, Saraki pleaded with aggrieved PDP members to sheathe their sword and work for the party’s victory. He promised that there would be abetter deal for Nigerians under the presidency of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, thePDP presidential candidate. Saraki said that it is only when the PDP is in power at the federal level that things can return to normal for the embattled Nigerians because their plight would be addressed. Earlier, Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed expressed confidence that the PDP would win the state in2019, “using that astute leadership of the Senate President as it has always been done since 2003.” In his acceptance speech on behalf of council members, the chairman, Professor Suleiman Abubakar, described their appointment as a call to service at a critical period in the history of the state and promised to give all it takes to ensure success for the party. Abukakar, a former minister of National Planning in the administration of then President Goodluck Jonathan, said that Saraki truly defeated his team with its federal might in that election and expressed the confidence that now that they are working together in the same party, the outcome would be better. Other membersof the campaign council are Alhaji Khaleel Bolaji (Kwara South), Alhaji Issa Bawa (Kwara North), Alhaji Ladi Edun (Kwara Central), Bode Ojomu, director ofMedia and Publicity, Comrade Ben Duntoye, director of Youths and Alhaji Isiaka Dan mairomo, director of Campaigns among others.