The National Assembly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies yesterday engaged in a wrangle over their alleged involvement in inducement of voters and vote buying. Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, descended verbally on the electoral body, accusing it of involvement in election malpractices and vote buying which, they insisted, had characterised elections in the country. But INEC chairman, Yakubu Mahmoud, who refuted the claims by principal officers of the National Assembly that the commission had been aiding the buying of votes, urged the lawmakers and other politicians to make candid confessions of their sordid involvement in vote buying and other electoral malpractices. On their part, the security agencies, including the Nigeria Police Force and the Department of State Services (DSS) contended that they had been doing their best in check electoral malpractices and only require total cooperation from politicians to succeed. Specifically, Saraki told the security agents that they are beginning to emerge as major clogs in the wheels of the country’s electoral process. For his part, Dogara alleged that INEC officials and security operatives buy votes, warning that the nation must not surrender to the criminal act of vote buying. This was the outcome of a public hearing on vote buying and improving the electoral process in Nigeria held at the National Assembly yesterday. Condemning the use of incident form to bypass the lawful process of accreditation, Saraki said, “It is all too clear that security agents are beginning to emerge as major clogs in the election process. Reports of collusion with political actors to disenfranchise voters are very worrying indeed. “We cannot under any circumstances militarise elections because that defeats the purpose of free, fair and credible polls. In an election, access to polling units for the purpose of casting one’s vote is the barest minimum. Once a voter is denied the opportunity to vote through bullying, intimidation and other forms of harassment, vote rigging and electoral malpractice have free reign. “Let me, at this point, mention that our major concern should be entrenching global best practices in our electoral process, and ensuring that these are backed by legislations to make them sustainable and permanent. For example, the use of Incident Form to bypass the lawful process of accreditation and voting is not good for the country. We must do away with it”. The Senate president added, however, that Nigeria cannot at this time fail, especially as the world is looking forward to what happens in the forthcoming elections. This, he note, is even so when it is considered that President Muhammadu Buhari is the chairman of ECOWAS and the chairman of INEC,  Yakubu, is the head of Electoral Commissions in West Africa. Corroborating Saraki’s position, Dogara said, “The recent phenomenon of direct pricing and buying of votes as if in a market square is very disturbing. It is one of the highest forms of corruption. “A more worrisome dimension to vote buying is the alleged use of the officials of the electoral umpire, INEC, and officers of security agencies to induce or intimidate and coerce voters to vote for particular candidates. The essence of this Public Hearing, therefore, is to enable all of us interrogate these issues and proffer the way out.” In his remarks, INEC chairman condemned vote buying and warned that it should not be allowed to define the nation’s election as such aberration was unacceptable. Yakubu noted that such development denies the citizens quality representation and gives the nation a bad name before the international community, and that it would be better if confessional hearing is conducted by lawmakers. Calling on the lawmakers to pass the Electoral Offences Tribunal Bill into law as recommended by Uwais, Lemu and Ken Nnamani electoral reform committees, the INEC boss noted that vote buying was not only a Nigeria issue, but an international phenomenon. He said, “Vote buying is not acceptable; it must never be allowed to define our elections. It is illegal and morally wrong. It denies citizens quality representation and gives us bad name internationally. It does not give us a good representation. “We talk too much as a nation. We should stop talking and move on as a nation. We need a confessional hearing rather than this. We should call the people and ask them how they do it. INEC does not buy or sell votes.”