Barely 48 hours after his return from a German hospital , Abia leaders  have  intensified pressure on the former governor of the state, Chief Orji Uzor-Kalu to dump his senatorial ambition and face his alleged N7. 6 billion fraud  trial in court . The politicians in the state under the umbrella of concerned Abia leaders have renewed their demand for accelerated hearing of  the alleged pending N7. 6 billion fraud levelled against the ex governor by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC). The group yesterday vowed to go ahead with its planned one million man match on  December 16 to demand for speedy trial of the former governor over N7. 6 billion. The former governor was reported to have returned to Nigeria after a month long medical trip to Germany. However,he is expected to return to Germany December 10 and 22  respectively for continuation of his treatment. The group asked the former governor to dump his senatorial ambition  and have more time for his reported health challenge while facing his trial. The group which spoke through Chief  Ogbuagu Amadi  in a reaction at the weekend however said ,” we are not convinced with the story about the medical trip of the former governor  and we insist that President Muhammadu Buhari should order  investigation into the circumstances leading to the reported sudden travel to Germany by chief Kalu which according to him was a clear violation of the travel ban allegedly slammed on him on others 49 Nigerians by the presidency . Chief Amadi claimed that the reported trip may be part of the desperate ploy by the former state chief executive to delay his trial over alleged N7.6 billion fraud levelled against him by the EFCC. He argued “,  for  chief Kalu to travel he needed to approach the high court for the release of his travel document ,but we are not sure this was done and yet he travelled abroad unhindered ” . “Our people want speedy trial of the former governor and we are worried over his desperation to frustrate his quick trial over the N7.6 billion fraud levelled against him by EFCC. “There should be no sacred cows in the fight against corruption , and it is worrisome for somebody whose international passport is allegedly being withheld can travel outside the country ” . We are however happy when justice Mohammadu Idris of lagos High court gave Chief Kalu seven days to appear before the court to answer questions over the alleged N7. 6 billion fraud charges levelled against him by EFCC. “It is even sad that such person could be cleared and fielded by APC  as it’s standard bearer for Abia north senatorial seat in the 2019 election . Reacting to a paid newspaper advisement in which the former governor attacked those asking the court to revoke his bail, the group insisted ” We have a legitimate right to demand for accelerated trial of any man that have allegedly looted our state treasury “  it’s morally wrong for some  body with such alleged monumental fraud case to stand for election.