In memory of the late Agom Adara, the Senator representing Kaduna central senatorial district, Shehu Sani has donated a multipurpose Hall worth over Fifty Million naira to the Adara community. While handing over the property to the leadership of Christain Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Adara Development Association, Senator Sani said the building will serve as a convergence point for the people of the community. ” This multipurpose hall was built to  assist the social economy of the people and to serve as a point where ideas can be shared amongst the people of different diverse”, the Senator said. Extolling the virtues of late Agom Adara, Dr. Raphael Maiwada Galadima, Senator Sani said that, he ( Agom Adara) had served his people diligently and was killed in a cool blood, hence the need to immortalised him for his service to the people. ” There is no better way to remember the late Agom Adara than to have a legacy project in his name. “The Agom Adara has served the people of Kachia, Kaduna State and dedicated his life for the service of humanity. ” This building is not just a building but, a structure that will unify and cement a peaceful coexistence among the people of the community. ” Tolerance is inevitable if we want to continue to live in peace”, the comrade Senator said. He urged the people to improve on the structure, saying that the building will be part of history.The building which is 2000 seating capacity is worth about fifty million naira, he disclosed. Meanwhile, the residents of the Adara Community which is a suburb of Kaduna State has lauded the foresight of the senator for the donation. The residents who in their numbers trooped out to witnessed the handing over of the property to the community vowed to support the senator in the upcoming elections. The Chairman of the Adara Development Association (ADA), Mumini Madogo said the people of the community will never forget the gesture, saying that it is a happiest moment for the people of the community. ” We are solely behind the senator, and we are thanking God for his life for thinking along this line to give back to the society”, he said.