The people of Kwara State have been urged to troop out en masse to receive the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar who is billed to address a rally in Ilorin today. The chairman of the organising committee of the PDP North Central presidential rally billed for Ilorin, Kwara State, Alhaji Rasaq Lawal made the call while briefing newsmen on preparations for the historic rally. Lawal asked the people of the state to show to the whole world their love for their illustrious son who by God’s grace is today the country’s number three citizen, the Senate president, Dr Bukola Saraki by according Atiku and his team a rousing reception. The chairman of the organising committee who is also the state secretary of the PDP, particularly urged the party’s members and supporters to turn out in large numbers to send signals to the whole world that Kwara is wholly PDP where the opposition with all their machinations cannot penetrate. Recalling Saraki’s developmental strides since the time he was governor of Kwara State and now as Senate president, Lawal counselled the people of the state on the need to sustain their support for him. He noted that 10 Senators put together cannot attract the kind of development that a president of the Senate will attract to the state. Lawal, expressed the confidence that the PDP would win the presidential election next year and will form the federal government. “When this happens, our God sent leader, Dr Bukola Saraki will not only remain the Senate president but will be among the critical stakeholders that would determine which state gets what in the new government. And as the director general of the PDP presidential campaign, our leader will definitely ensure that our dear Kwara State is adequately represented in the government at the centre. “The Senate president has said it openly and repeatedly at different fora that his main goal in politics is ensuring the welfare and wellbeing of the people of the state. And he has been pursuing this goal with vigour and all resources at his disposal,” he stated. Lawal said all arrangements have been made for a colourful, successful and hitch- free rally.