Deputy National Publicity Secretary, All Progressives Congress (APC), Yekini Nabena has slammed the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar saying that his quest to get the government of the United States to “Vacate Entry Ban” does nothing to enhance his integrity. Nabena who alleged that Alhaji Atiku as Vice President under the Obasanjo administration and chair of the then National Council on Privatization oversaw the sale of “lucrative” public enterprises further stated that it was therefore no surprise that he also muted the idea of selling the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). In a statement he personally signed and made available to LEADERSHIP, Mr Nabena averred that these were some of the reason that has made the PDP and their flagbearer unappealing to the generality of the populace. The statement reads in part: “The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has vowed to selloff the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), among other national assets if elected. One is not surprised at Atiku’s declaration, as the sale of national assets to proxies and associates is his main motivator for the office of president. “One thing readily comes to mind — Atiku as the country’s Vice President under the Olusegun Obasanjo administration from 1999-2007, presided over the National Council on Privatization, overseeing the sale of lucrative public enterprises such as Nigerian Airways, Nigerian Telecommunications Limited (Nitel), Nicon Hilton Hotel. It is on record how Atiku sold these juicy national assets to family members, friends and associates. Ofcourse the country became economically worse for it. “This is the economic arrangement Atiku and his reconciled boss former President Olusegun Obasanjo plan to return Nigeria to. “Nigerians have been impoverished by selfish and corrupt leadership who mortgage their commonwealth for their personal gains. Enough is enough!  “These are the reason Nigerians rejected PDP and all it represents in 2015. Once beaten, twice shy. Nigerians have been severally beaten by the PDP and they do not wish to have a repeat. Lobbying the US Government to grant Atiku visa does not solve his integrity and image problem.  “The pertinent questions remain: Was Atiku’s wife, Jennifer involved at his behest in Illegal financial transactions in the US? Were the transactions investigated? What was the result of the investigation? Was the US citizen caught in the web of the corrupt dealings jailed in the US?”  