No fewer than 24 Nigerian medical doctors and five agriculture engineer who were trained by the government of Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela have returned to Nigeria after seven and half years course in Venezuela. Unveiling the graduants during a solidarity meeting to the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Ayuba Wabba, the Foreign Minister of Venezuela, Amb. Jorge Arreaza disclosed that they were trained on scholarship as part of the contribution of Venezuela to the development of Africa as a continent. Amb. Arreaza  noted that Venezuela at the moment is facing blockade like the Cubans. He averred that the blockade is quite new for the country, adding that US President Donald Trump signed an executive order, imposing sanctions against Venezuela people and economy. According to him, “Banks closed our accounts. When we seek support from international financial institutions, they denied us because they have orders from the US not to help us. He debunked the remarks that President Maduro is dictator, saying the government invest the country’s resources in the county, providing free education and health to all citizens and even foreigners. He said the country would hold its general elections in April as scheduled. He said despite the sanction, “the government has not stopped in providing basic social services to the people.” He said the ruling party wants the participation of the opposition in the election. He said, “If the opposition chooses to boycott the polls, they should stay at home and not disrupt the process. “We want the election to hold peacefully and even if the opposition will boycott the election, they should stay at home and not repeat the history of going to the street to destroy properties. But out major goal is for the opposition to participate in the election. “No empire or neocolonial force will make the people abandon power in Venezuela. We need your solidarity. “Most Venezuelans are humble people and they support the Bolivarian revolution.” In his remarks, Wabba pledged to collaborate with the Venezuelan government on ways to advance issues of social justice and decent work in the country. The NLC President said the partnership came at the right time when the country was about looking into issues related to decent work, particularly, the global perspective of driving processes of development through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Wabba said the the congress was committed to working with Venezuelan government to end injustice. According to him, “We both need to see how best we can through social guidance improve the relationship and importantly see to it that we advance issues of social justice and decent work. “Undermining the sovereignty of a country and sovereignty of the people is why peace would not reign; critical social services like health and education have been affected and it’s certainly a motion that we won’t accept as working people. “The people should be the centre point of every policy and every system. It is the welfare of the people first because the primary purpose of governance is security and welfare of the people.” The Ambassador of Venezuela to Nigeria, Miguelangel Veccinia, reiterated commitment to build more stronger bilateral ties between both countries. The Ambassador also assured the NLC and the Nigerian government of unending support from his home government especially in the area of development and social justice.