Ahead of  next general election, the Special Adviser to the Governor Udom Emmanuel on Political, Legislative Affairs and Water Resources, Barrister Ekong Sampson, has reiterated that the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) is unstoppable in Akwa Ibom State. Barrister Sampson made this known in Uyo at the weekend when the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Sir Monday Uko; that of Transport and Petroleum Resources, Mr. Orman Esin; Chairmen of the 31 Local Government Councils, and other relevant stakeholders called on him to discuss the ongoing Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) exercise. Addressing newsmen shortly after the meeting, the Special Adviser said “we looked at a range of issues that will enhance our service delivery, particularly in politics. We shared in the strong current of opinion that Governor Udom Emmanuel has done very well and deserves re-election.” “We also discussed the need for collaboration and synergy to get the best result. We are going to continue the conversation and to work together. We intend to build upon this exercise to the success of the state government,” he added. He said they will ensure no energy is spared through their collaborative efforts to reelect Governor Udom Emmanuel so as to enable him “consolidate on his clearly outlined vision for Akwa Ibom State.” “Akwa Ibom is fully a PDP State and we are prepared for election. Those who think PDP will fracture will be disappointed because we are going to hold the ground and win the game. We are set for victory and we are committed to ensuring that our Governor is returned as Governor in 2019 to consolidate on his achievements and vision. We are going to make sure democracy is deepened in the state,” Barrister Sampson emphasized. Also speaking, Commissioner for Transport and Petroleum Resources, Mr. Orman Esin, said he was at the meeting to also use the opportunity to inform the public on the activities of his Ministry. “I came here to enlighten my colleagues and the people of the state on what needs to be done and how we could create a synergy between the local government system and the Ministry of Transport and Petroleum Resources. I am very sure that we are going to have more collaboration like this for the success of Akwa Ibom State. Most importantly, we have geared up ourselves to make sure Governor Udom Emmanuel returns in 2019. We are going to showcase his numerous strides to the people,” he added. Speaking on behalf of Local Government Chairmen, the Akwa State Chairman of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) and Chairman of Eket Local Government Council, Mr. Frank Archibong, said it was a tripartite meeting that covered a wide range of issues “but chief among what we discussed was the CVR exercise, which I believe should not be viewed as a PDP matter but an Akwa Ibom matter.”