National chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, yesterday got a lifeline in the ongoing crisis rocking the party, as 20 governors on the party’s platform passed a vote of confidence on him. LEADERSHIP gathered that the governors at a meeting yesterday overtly endorsed the party chairman, even as they urged the party’s national leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to reconcile any difference he has with Odigie-Oyegun. This is coming barely a week after Tinubu had accused Odigie-Oyegun of undermining the ongoing reconciliation process in the APC. Tinubu who is chairman of the peace and reconciliation committee recently set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to reconcile all aggrieved persons within the party had alleged in a 7-page letter that the national chairman was sabotaging his efforts. In a swift reaction, Odigie-Oyegun who denied the allegation of sabotage promised to give the Tinubu committee all the needed support in ensuring its success in the discharge of its assignment. A reliable source that was privy to yesterday’s meeting told LEADERSHIP that the governors “resolved to stand firm behind Oyegun who they lauded for providing the needed leadership for the party”. The source who did not want his name in print further told our correspondent that the endorsement coming from the governors who wield considerable power in the party is a major boost to Oyegun’s grip on the party’s leadership. He listed the governors who gave their endorsement for the confidence on the national chairman to include Senator Jibrilla Bindow (Adamawa), Abubakar Mohammed (Bauchi), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Kashim Shettima (Borno), Muhammad Badaru (Jigawa), Nasir El-rufai (Kaduna), Umar Ganduje (Kano), Aminu Masari (Katsina), Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi) and Yahaya Bello (Kogi). Others are Abdulfatah Ahmed (Kwara), Tanko Almakura (Nasarawa), Sani Bello (Niger), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Ibrahim Gaidam  (Yobe) and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara). At the time filing this report, it was still not clear as to where Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal stands. Our correspondent gathered that Tambuwal’s position on issues bordering on the party had been quite unclear for sometime now, following rumours that he may also be preparing grounds for his presidential ambition. “Tambuwal is nursing a silent ambition to run for the presidency; hence, he is being careful as far as taking sides on the scuffle between Oyegun and Tinubu is concerned”, another competent source in the APC said. PMB, Osinbanjo More Concerned About Nigerians Than Elections – Presidency Meanwhile, the presidency said yesterday that President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Yemi Osinbajo, are more concerned about the welfare of Nigerians than winning the 2019 presidential election. The senior special assistant to the president on social investment programme, Ismaeel Ahmed, stated this at the weekend while briefing State House correspondents on the success of the programme. Noting that the president is more concerned about the future of Nigerians than next year elections, Ahmed added that the success of the programme is about the country itself and not just for political reasons. According to him, the essence of the programme is to reduce poverty to the barest minimum in the country and distribute wealth. On what the government will leverage on as one of the biggest successes on SIP during campaigns, he said, “I think even though this is a political promise, it came from a manifesto of a political party, the implementation is far from being just political; the implementation is for all Nigerians. “When we set out and were campaigning in 2015 we didn’t say what we are going to do is going to be solely for political reasons. The president and the vice president are more committed to the electorates, rather than elections and are concerned about the future rather than just the next one year. So, this is entirely about the country itself and not just for political reasons”. On success recorded by the programme, he said they are engaging 73,000 cooks that are growing the rural economy. He noted: “They are buying from local farmers. Therefore, this is growing the rural economy. They are feeding some children and we have reduced the number of out-of-school children. In the last one or two years we have been implementing the school feeding Programme and engaging 200,000 young unemployed graduates that are receiving N30,000 a month. “These are successes in themselves. So, if we are looking for things to leverage on, stomp our chests and storm the political campaigns and say we should be voted again, we have a lot of success stories to tell but that is not the entirety and essence of this Programme. “The essence of this programme is to reduce poverty and distribute wealth as much as we can. The president and the vice president care less about the elections. Like I said, they care more concerned about the citizens.” On her part, the special adviser on social investment programme to the president, Maryam Uwais, said the programme has reduced the number of out-of-school children from 10.5 million to 8.6 million. She stated that the national social register is being developed in 23 states that have met the requirements and have 497 that have been uploaded to the social register. She said, “That is where we line our cash transfer beneficiaries from. So, we are just trying to ensure we target and pay only those that are really poor. That is why we set up this intricate process. “We have reduced the number of school children. The NBS figures say we have 8.6 million children who are out of school”. Uwais further explained that one of the successes of the NPower Programme is the data that government has been able to collate. She disclosed that government has a platform that has over 2.5 million people with their dates of birth, qualifications, interest, BVN that is actually available to the public and private sector that wants to employ. She continued: “Npower Programme was not designed to get government to employ everybody. The devices we have given them have a lot of content that relates to the vocations that they have selected. “We sat down with different ministries and the private sector, and they design modules that we digitalized and put on the device. A lot of information on how to set up your own businesses, civics etc., because what we are aiming to do really is to get them to take ownership of their lives. And we do have a lot of success stories. “In fact, we have people who are not NAgro but are NTech or NHealth setting up farms because the agriculture part is the most viable and state governments have been very responsive in giving them lands and helping them set up. “We have three ladies in Delta with background in microbiology and bio-chemistry who have been without job for years. They have set up a lab and have been serving their community and have been able to save from that N30,000. “We have a virtually impaired young man who has been able to save money from his N30,000 to buy a computer. He is now transcribing subjects like physics and chemistry into brail and that was his ultimate aim. So, the idea is not to get them employed by government but to get them to take ownerships of their lives”. On states that are yet to be on school feeding programme, she said, “We expect the states to meet our requirements and the framework. The states have to give us the menu that has the nutritional content and this is determined by a team led by a professor IITA. So, the food has to be contextual, it has to be affordable and has to be accessible in that state. “We need the commissioners for health and Agric, as well as the chairman of SUBEB to give us the teachers-students ratio and number of children in the school. We need to know where the primary schools are located; we need the states to select the cooks that will be paid within the vicinities where the feeding is happening. All of that is a process and that is why it is coming back to us. “Like I said earlier, most of the cooks are not literate and we insist on getting them account numbers so that they will be paid directly. So, until we have 70 per cent of them uploaded correctly we won’t start feeding in that state. This is why the process is slow but we need to get it right; we need to be able to pay them directly without any third party accessing those funds”.