…Tinubu: Kogi Gov Backs Odigie-Oyegun President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday held a meeting with the
chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Odigie- Oyegun at the presidential villa, Abuja. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the subject of the meeting was
the crisis in the party. It will be recalled that the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu had written to the president, accusing Odigie- Oyegun of sabotaging his peace efforts by inaugurating a parallel state executive of the party in Kogi State. The president had earlier appointed Tinubu to reconcile warring factions in the party. As at press time yesterday, Oyegun has not responded to Tinubu’s letter. Buhari is also scheduled to meet
with the National Caucus of theparty on Monday night in the
Villa, ahead the party’s planned convention. Following the recent rift between the National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Odigie-Oyegun and the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Kogi State governor,Yahaya Bello has thrown his weight behind the party chairman. LEADERSHIP recalls that Tinubu had written to thepresident, accusing Odigie- Oyegun of sabotaging his efforts by inaugurating a parallel state executive of the party in Kogi. Speaking with State House correspondents on Thursday night after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, had said that the governors on the platform of the APC applauded the decision of the president to appoint Tinubu to reconcile warring factions in the party. He, however, contended that one solution cannot work for the
different states affected, adding that some erring members in some
states need to be disciplined. “We the governors and the majority of APC members have confidence in our national chairman Chief John Oyegun. We also believe in the president by appointing Bola Tinubu, our
leader, to reconcile some aggrieved members of our party.
“However, one-size-fits-all will not work in all the states where some erring members need to be disciplined,” he said. Governor Bello also stated that APC governors were backing Buhari
for a second term in office because the president had done well so far and his anti-corruption stance had restrained state governors from engaging in corrupt practices. Speaking on the president’s suitability for a second term, he
said: “There are three things: one, he has done excellently well; secondly, on fighting corruption, even we, the governors, are competing among ourselves to ensure that the little resource available, we utilize for the people. So, corruption is reduced to the barest minimum. “Next is the revival of the economy, job creation and making sure that average Nigerians
are comfortable. Based on this performance, we are urging Mr. President to please run and fly in 2019. “And if you look at it critically, the governors themselves who
naturally have immunity, we are very careful because you know that Mr. President is incorruptible. If you do, you are going to face the
consequences. So, we are careful about that and we are utilizing it.
“You see, among ourselves, we are competing among the states
to see who does more, unlike the previous regime. “So, we want Mr. President to continue to lead the way so that we
can follow and Nigerians will have the dividends of democracy.”
He said Buhari was still conferring with Nigerians before taking a decision on the 2019 presidential election. “The president is still consulting and he wants more Nigerians to
speak before he can make up his mind. But I am very comfortable
that Nigerians will speak loudly,” Bello stated. Oyegun To Tinubu: You Have My
Full Support
The national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief
John Oyegun yesterday assured the party’s national leader, Bola Tinubu, of his “fullest” support on the latter’s reconciliation
assignment. Tinubu had earlier written to Oyegun, accusing him of sabotaging
his peace mission. “Instead of being a bulwark of support as promised, you positioned yourself in active opposition to the goal of resuscitating the progressive and democratic nature of APC,” Tinubu’s letter had read. But in his response yesterday, Oyegun was silent on the allegation
of sabotage raised against him. “I thank you for your letter dated
February 21, 2018, for your prayers and good wishes for my health. I
wish you the same and pray that our good God keeps you strong
and grants you His peace,” Oyegun wrote in the letter dated February 23. “Let me once again formally congratulate you on the peacemaking assignment Mr. President has entrusted you with. It is most challenging but I believe you will ultimately justify the confidence reposed in you by Mr President. In this, you have my fullest support.” Oyegun sent copies of the letters to President Muhammadu Buhari,
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. 