The TY Danjuma Foundation has awarded the sum of N212 million in grants to 19 non-governmental organizations to intervene in health, education and skills training in eight locations across seven states of the federation. The grant award came at the end of a 2-day event featuring a Learning Conference and Grantees Training organized by the Foundation for partners and grantees, which was held in Abuja. The states are:Taraba, Edo, Enugu, Ebonyi, Borno, Kaduna, and the Federal Capital Territory. The grants by the Foundation will fund 23 projects in health and education. The projects funded in health according to the Foundation will focus on providing free maternal and child care, free comprehensive eye care, free surgeries for persons with facial deformities, combat neglected tropical diseases, as well as provide access to quality health care through free medical missions. It said the projects in education and skills training, will focus on teachers’ training, capacity building for School Based Management Committee (SBMC), promote girl child education, improve learning environment, and facilitate integrated school feeding. “Seventy-five percent of the total grants will fund Health projects while twenty-five percent will fund education and skills training projects. “For effective and responsive grant making, the Foundation organizes a Learning Conference and Grantee Training for its implementing partners as part of the Foundation’s grant making process. “The learning conference events serve to formally conclude a grant year, gauge lessons learned in the course of the grant year, provide an avenue for feedback to the partners on how the foundation will make its grants more effective, and showcase the results of the grant year to the general public. “While, the Grantee Training formally announces the commencement of a grant year, organizations that approved by the Board for funding are trained in the Foundation’s grant making processes, reporting guidelines, and expectation,” the statement said. In the past 8 years, the TY Foundation has consistently funded and supported over 150 nonprofit organisations to deliver free quality health care and enhance education in underserved communities in 32 states across Nigeria. With support of partners, the Foundation strives to touch lives everyday while working to achieve its vision for a Nigeria where all have access to affordable health care and quality education.