The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, declared yesterday that farmers/herders crisis, which has claimed many lives in the country of recent, borders on economic survival and not ethnicity or religion.
He warned that if the government and Nigerians continue to treat the incessant clashes resulting from the crisis as religious or ethnic issues, it would continue unabated. The sultan spoke during the presentation of a book titled, ‘Dynamics of Revealed Knowledge and Human Sciences’, written in honour of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board’s (JAMB’s) Registrar, Prof Is-haq Oloyede.
The royal father cautioned that ascribing the word criminality to a tribe or ethnic group is wrong, even as he urged the federal government to fish out and deal with the criminals who have continued to kill the innocent citizens.
He said, “Nowadays, the worst word you can hear is Fulani. There are millions of Fulanis who don’t even know how to train cows. I am Fulani. I was never a herder. Now when everybody sees a Fulani man, he is a killer. To ascribe a particular ethnic group as a criminal is wrong. “All over the world there are criminals. Let us give criminals their due name, not Christian criminals, Muslim criminals or Yoruba criminals. Call them criminals and deal with them. That is what we are telling government. If the government has failed, they should tell us where to come in and help.“We don’t have statesmen any longer. We only have men of state as people just align with their states and religion more. A governor only sees his immediate surrounding as his constituency. We must be allowed freedom to go wherever we want to and live wherever we want to. We don’t except criminality. If criminals are in our midst, we must fish them out and deal with them”.
On the missing money in JAMB office, Abubakar expressed dismay over the high level of corruption in the nation, noting that Nigerians should come together to chat ways and means of getting out of corruption, a societal malaise that had continued to threaten the nation. He said, “The snake issues has been a humorous thing but it is just a sad reality of our county. Where is our moral value? Somebody will just come up and take government money and go away scot-free and nobody challenges it.
“The earlier we wake up the better for us. Corruption is at a high level and it is left for us to fight it to the end. We cannot just sit down and be thinking that things are okay. Things are not okay. It is left for us to sit down and find out ways and means of getting things back on track”.He urged Nigerian leaders to emulate the JAMB registrar who proved he is honest and incorruptible. Farmers/Herders Clashes Top Agenda At Council Of State Meeting Today Meanwhile the increasing spate of farmers/herders clashes in the country will be one of the primes in the agenda of the Council of State meeting scheduled to hold today, LEADERSHIP learnt last night. A reliable presidency source told our correspondent that President Muhammadu Buhari convened the meeting to bring past leaders and serving governors together to deliberate on how best to address the farmers/herders clashes with a view end the crisis. This is the third council of state meeting since President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office. The first one was held on October 21,2015 while the second one held in September 2016. The National Council of State is chaired by President Buhari, with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as deputy chairman.Other council members are all former presidents and Heads of Government, all former Chief Justices of Nigeria; President of the Senate; Speaker of the House of Representatives; all governors of the 36 states of the federation and the Attorney General of the Federation. LEADERSHIP gathered that the meeting will focus on issues bordering on insecurity in the country, following the escalation of killings caused by farmers/herders clashes. The council has the constitutional duties of advising the president in the exercise of his powers with respect to national census, prerogative of mercy, award of national honours, the Independent National Electoral Commission, the National Judicial Council and the National Population Commission. It also has the responsibility of advising the president on the maintenance of public order within the federation or any part thereof whenever it is requested to do so.