The crisis bedevilling the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have gone up a notch as the chairman of the Peace and Reconciliation Committee recently set up by President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday wrote a strongly worded seven-page letter to the national chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, accusing him of doing everything to undermine the ongoing peace process. Asiwaju Tinubu further alleged that Chief Odigie-Oyegun had been taking unilateral decisions regarding the crisis in the party in Kogi, Kaduna and Adamawa states. In the letter dated February 21 and entitled, ‘Actions and Conduct Weakening the Party from Within’, Tinubu said, “Those who were entrusted with positions of high responsibility within the party seemed unable to handle the success given them,” adding that little attention was given to the principles upon which the party was formed and presented to the public as an alternative to the PDP. He said Oyegun had mentioned the APC in Kogi, Kaduna, Adamawa and Kano states as chapters deserving critical attention due to the peculiar nature of their crisis, and accused the national chairman of rushing to Kogi last weekend to “unilaterally inaugurate a new slate of state officials, parallel to the officials already heading the state chapter of the party”. “It is my understanding that your dissolution of the duly-constituted state executives and the hurried naming of the above-mentioned caretaker group were not approved by the NWC. You had let this situation fester for months on end; only when I was appointed to help resolve internal disputes and when you realised I might focus early on Kogi, did you stir from your indifference and inaction”. Tinubu said Oyegun’s inaction led to the festering crisis in other states, noting that the chairman also failed to avail him of the status reports on the affected state chapters as earlier promised. “Drawing from your behaviour in Kogi, Kaduna and with regard to the state chapter assessment requested, I am led to the inference that you have no intention of actually supporting my assignment”. The letter was copied to the president, vice president, Senate president and speaker of the House of Representatives. However, members of the Adamawa State House of Assembly, led by their Speaker, were at the national secretariat of the APC to pass a vote of confidence on the national chairman and the NWC. “It is a great pleasure for members of the Adamawa House of Assembly to be in your midst this afternoon to deliver our solidarity message from the depth of our hearts. It is obvious that there is a tendency to have divided opinions at this crucial hour. There are several partisan criticisms but the criticisms hold no weight. They are not constructive and that is why today we are here to register, render and show our appreciation and maximum support to the national executive of the APC. “We also want to register and show our appreciation and maximum support to the state executives of our party. We appreciate them and are in support of them. We are behind them 100 percent. We also want to show our appreciation to our able executive governor of Adamawa State with the laudable project he has put in place in the state. We commend him and we have passed a vote of confidence on him,” the speaker said. Majority Leader of the House on his part said: “Our visit is a show of support for the national executive. We are with you. We are synergizing with the state executing. We are happy with their leadership because they are copying your leadership style. We are very comfortable with the national executives. Despite whatever is happening, there is no impunity in the APC. This good leadership of yours is what has made me to come to the APC.” Responding, Odigie-Oyegun said, “In the last few months, I have had the fortune of having nothing but good news from Adamwa. Your colleagues in the NASS have also visited and showed solidarity. “Today, you are here and what have you said – loyalty to your governor, loyalty to your party in Adamawa, loyalty to the national party and loyalty to Mr president – I don’t think anybody can wish for more”.