The federal government confirmed yesterday that 110 students of Government Science and Technical College in Dapchi, Yobe State, are unaccounted for. It however, assured that, security agencies are leaving no stone unturned in the search for the schoolgirls. In what seemed to be a replay of the abduction of the Chibok schoolgirls in 2014, insurgents believed to be members of a faction of the Boko Haram sect had on Monday February 19, 2018 invaded the school in Dapchi and abducted the girls. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, announced the figure yesterday after a meeting between a federal government delegation and representatives of key stakeholders, including the state government, the college, the parents of the girls, security agencies and Bursari local government, where Dapchi is situated, in Damaturu. He said based on the briefings from the Principal of the College, Hajiya Adama Abdulkarim, and the state commissioner for Education, Mohammed Lami, 906 students, out of whom 110 have not been accounted for, were in the school on the day of the attack. Mohammed also announced that the federal government has directed the police and civil defence authorities in Yobe State to immediately deploy their personnel to all the schools in the state in order to ensure the security and safety of the students and their staffers. The minister noted that the federal government has stepped up efforts to rescue the girls and return them safely to their parents, saying the security agencies are working on many leads regarding the whereabouts of the girls. His words: ‘’This is the second time in four days that a federal government delegation would visit Yobe State since the unfortunate incident. This is a measure of the seriousness with which we are addressing the issue. The security forces are leaving no stone unturned in their search for the girls. ‘’We are back here in Yobe as part of efforts to provide some succour to the parents of the girls, to let them know that they are not alone and also to reassure them that we will not rest until we have found the girls. We will carry the parents along on the efforts we are making’’. For his part, the Minister of Interior, Lt Gen. Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau (rtd), said the delegation embarked on the trip in order to get the facts right ‘’so that the approach to the solution can be correct. ‘’We must get back the girls and also ensure that this does not happen again,’’ he added. The federal government delegation, which comprised the Ministers of Information and Culture, and his Interior counterpart, held an enlarged meeting that was attended by Yobe State governor, Ibrahim Gaidam; members of the state cabinet, the Principal and Vice Principal of the school, representatives of the parents of the missing girls and security agencies, among others.