The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha has warned new board chairmen and members against corrupt practices. He stated this yesterday during the inauguration ceremony of chairmen and members of board of agencies in the office of the SGF. According to Mustafa,  the present administration has zero tolerance for corruption, so corrupt practices will not be tolerated. He recalled that on the last working day of 2017, President  MuhammaduBuhari approved the  appointment of boards chairmen and members. Noting that the list had received a lot of public commentaries, the SGF added that further work was carried out to ensure that equity and justice guided the composition. He further stated that he  issued a circular that all ministries must  conclude their board inauguration on or before  March 9. He said, “As you are all aware,  the present administration has zero tolerance for any form of corruption and this stance must not be compromised in anyway. “Government will frown at and punish corrupt practices perpetrated by any board member as well as the management team of these agencies.” The SGF also warned the chairmen against meddling in the day to day running of the agencies. “ Except where expressly stated by statue,board appointments are part time. Management of your agencies should therefore be allowed to perform the day to day running of these agencies without hindrance. “Your allowances and entitlements as board members are guided by extant circulars that will be distributed to you in due course. Please acquaint yourselves with the circulars for proper guidance,” he stated. The agencies whose board were inaugurated include ; National commission for refugees, migrants and internally displaced persons,  ( NCFRMI) Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission, ( NCPC), National Lottery Trust Fund( NLTF),  National Lottery Regulatory Commission ( NAEC) Nigerian Atomic Energy Commission,  Federal Road Safety Commission, ( FRSC)National Agency For The Control Of AIDS (NACA) and Galaxy Backbone Limited (GB).