As the 105 abducted schoolgirls of Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, remain in the captivity of their kidnappers, their parents have released the names of their missing children. They have also blamed their tragedy on the state governor, Ibrahim Gaidam’s failure to provide adequate security in public schools. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that Boko Haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the abduction of about 105 schoolgirls from the Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State on Monday. Alhaji Makinta Liman, father of three girls abducted alongside other girls, accused the governor and the Nigerian Army of being careless about the safety and wellbeing of Nigerian children, especially those under their watch. Liman, who expressed worry over his daughters’ whereabouts, said,  “I don’t know what has happened to my daughters, and I don’t know what their abductors  will do to them in the days and weeks to come. I’m so afraid to lose.” He begged security operatives deployed in the area and the state government to rescue the abducted girls, to relieve their parents of the huge burden and avert  other impending tragedies as a result of the abductions. “We have no certainty that these boys (Boko Haram) took these girls. Nobody can tell you about their whereabouts for now. We need to see our children alive. What we know is that they have failed us; they have lied and we can never trust them, except we see our kids.” “It is no longer news that our state governor and the well trusted military deceived the Nigerians and the world with the false report about the rescue of our girls. The school in question is without adequate security and you know where Dapchi is located. Our social and psychological lives have been trampled. We have a comprehensive list of the 105 girls abducted and we can’t let the military or state government, who are yet to rescue our daughters, play with our hearts,” Liman said. While arguing that it is the responsibility of government to ensure maximum protection of lives and properties, Liman said the challenge now is not only to rescue the abducted schoolgirls but also to trace and punish the culprits. The apology is not enough; it should be followed by exposing those behind this,” he said. The worried parent revealed that the affected school was not manned by security operatives whereas the state university and the Turkish school, Mamudo, have a good number of armed security guards along with trained dogs. He noted that only sons and daughters of commissioners and top government officials attend those schools. “This is a national tragedy that has seriously dampened my hope as a father; we want our female children to return safely. The unabated abduction of schoolgirls in my region is throwing us into a serious dilemma and a state of confusion, First it was Chibokgirls, then Dapchi and many other unreported cases,” he stated.