….Says Osun, Ekiti polls pointer to 2019 National chairman of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, yesterday survived the party’s leadership hurdle when he got the nod of the National Executive Committee (NEC) to stay on for another one year. Those whose tenures were also extended alongside Oyegun with effect from June this year are members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) and the state chairmen of the party. Briefing journalists after the NEC meeting in company of the party national publicity secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi and some state chairmen of the party, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, noted that the consideration by NEC for tenure extension is in line with article 13 of the party’s constitution. The governor said, “At the end of the National Executive Council meeting today, a major decision was taken in line with the constitution of our party. We are all aware that the tenure of the current NWC and the executive members of this party, both elected and appointed, come to an end June this year. “Considering the time left for the party to conduct all the Congresses and convention and considering that our leader Sen. Tinubu has been charged with responsibility to reconciling all aggrieved members of our party, we cannot afford to approach general elections with more dispute and crisis. So, relying on Article 13 of our constitution, which empowers the NEC to carry out the function of the convention, the NEC has decided to extend the tenure of the current NWC and other executive committees at various levels for another twelve months, starting from June 30th.” Speaking at the NEC meeting yesterday, President Muhammadu Buhari said the present APC-led administration has, since it took over the reigns of government, been able to bring stability to all the facets of the country despite the situation it found on ground. Giving what seemed like a report to the enlarged leadership of the party, Buhari praised the commitment of the governors elected under the party’s platform, saying they were in part responsible for the successes so far achieved in the areas of security and economy. The president who arrived NEC hall of the party at exactly 11:06am stated that his administration had spent the last two years digging the nation out of the mess it was enmeshed in by the previous government. He announced that the nation is on a stable path to growth even as he charged the party to give the Bola Ahmed Tinubu-led Peace and Reconciliation Committee recently set up by him the needed cooperation to succeed in the assigned task. The president said, “I am happy to report that slowly and steadily, we have managed to stabilize the country and redirect the ship of state. We have restored prudence to the management of resources and confidence in Nigeria has been restored. On February 23, Nigeria floated a 12-ear and 20-year Eurobond in the international market, which were both over subscribed. The 12-year bond was, within days over subscribed by 332 percent, while the 20 year bond was over subscribed by 372 percent. We have stabilized the Naira and increase our foreign reserve from 20 billion dollars to 40 billion dollars. Inflation rate is down. With considerably less resources available to the country, we have improved all the indices towards a stronger economy. “Above all, we must pay tribute to the Nigerian people who massively support the government in-spite of distractions from proponents of business as usual. Nevertheless, I am not asking us to relax and take things easy. We all know that elections are looming in the horizon. We must therefore get our acts together. “Accordingly, I implore all members of the party to give the Asiwaju committee full cooperation to resolve existing differences among our members in the states affected. It is perhaps inevitable that there will be differences of opinion within the party. If we resolve them, then we can build a genuinely Democratic Party. “But we must not lose sight of our common purpose as a party to break the mule of Nigerian politics and takes the country to new heights”. On the reconciliation committee, the President said, ”Therefore, we have asked Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to lead this process of restoring order, manage differences and strengthen the party”. On the expectations of the populace on his government’s performance, President Buhari stated: “I must acknowledge that the face of government has not met the expectations of many within our party. But few of us know or appreciated the depth of the wrath when we took office and that we spent the last two years bringing the country out of the mess we met it. “Furthermore, the stand off between the executive and the National Assembly slowed down the process of government. We are working hard to resolve the differences so that the country can move forward.” For his part, the APC national chairman, Odigie-Oyegun, appealed to party fateful present at the meeting to minimize the stress within the party, which he said could have a negative impact on the overall fighting power of the party ahead of the 2019 general election. Oyegun further stressed that the elections billed for 2018 will be a pointer to how the party would fare in the crucial 2019 general election, just as he also commended the ongoing Peace and Reconciliation process led by the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu Committee. Calling for calm among party chieftains, Oyegun said, “I want to make a passionate appeal that everything be done to minimize the stresses within the party. We must do everything to minimize the disputations within the party and do everything to ensure that we are in fighting shape come 2019. “For that reason, I want to say once more that we are fully behind and in support of the initiative taken by Mr president in setting up a team headed by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to effect such a reconciliation that are necessary within the party. We have had challenges; we have had storms and weathered the storms”. On the upcoming elections later in the year, he added: “We obviously have a very tough year ahead of us. It is year of challenges, multiplicity of activities beginning from the month of April when the processes for replacing officers of the party whose tenure will expire by June, the process of conducting challenging elections in Ekiti in July and Osun in September. “These elections are precursors of the national elections. It is therefore necessary that we treat them with great seriousness because they are elections we should do everything to win. They are signals and signposts, indicators of what is to come in 2019. Preparations are also well underway for those elections.” Conspicuously Absent at the meeting were Senate President Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. Senate Adjourns For APC NEC Meeting Meanwhile, the Senate yesterday adjourned its plenary to enable its members from the APC attend the party’s NEC meeting held ahead of its national convention. The upper legislative chamber however considered a point of order raised by Senator Shehu Sani (APC Kaduna Central) on the violence that erupted on Monday at Kasuwan Magani town in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna State before standing down all other items on the order paper. The Senators sat for only for 12minutes at the plenary presided over by the deputy Senate president, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, and adjourned at 11:12am till today after approval of votes and proceedings of Thursday, February 22. The Senate leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, who moved a motion to that effect, said, “Mr. President, in view of the fact that the largest party, the APC is holding its NEC meeting today, I want to urged this Senate, especially our colleagues from the minority side to let us stand down all other items on the order paper to enable Senators attend the meeting”. At this point, some members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at the plenary were shouting, “we agree, we agree” repeatedly. Amidst the shouts from the PDP side, Senator Lawan (APC Yobe North) continued with his motion, saying, “Mr. President, you will recall that when the minority party (PDP) held its NEC meeting last time, largest party (APC) cooperated with our colleagues by allowing them to attend”. Seconding the motion, the Minority Leader, Senator Godswill Akpabio represented by his deputy, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha said: “Mr. President, before I will second the motion, I want to say something. It is a fact that there is a crisis in APC and there is need to go and solve it. “Unfortunately, we don’t have enough police personnel in the country and we don’t know how many policemen we are going to send there to ensure peace and orderliness. In his remarks, the deputy Senate president, Ekweremadu said, “When the house of your neighbour is on fire, it is important to assist in quenching the fire. There is no doubt that the APC house is on fire, and there is need to help them quench it”. He later put the motion on voice votes and the lawmakers at the plenary unanimously approved it.