The senator representing Rivers South-East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has appealed to his supporters to stop attacking leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, including the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Adol Peterside. He also appealed to his supporters not to attack other leaders of the APC such as the party Chairman and Secretary in the state, Dr. Davies Ibiamu Ikanya and Chief Emeka Beke, respectively as well as Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs, insisting that the listed party leaders were not their problem. Abe, who spoke during an interactive session with representatives of youth and student organizations in the state in Port Harcourt, said attack  party leaders on social media is not a sign of courage but a reflection of ones upbringing. The senator said,  “On the issue of attacks and  counter-attacks on social media, honestly, I have said severally and I want to say if here to all of you young people here that how you address people even when you disagree with them is not a sign of courage. It is a reflection of your upbringing. Anywhere that I go and talk to people, I am very conscious of the fact that when I leave there, people are going to review what I said. They are going to look at it in the context of who Senator Abe is. I am the son of my father; my father was a priest of the Anglican Church. “So, sometimes, it takes courage to stand in from of people to say things that are mean and hurtful and sometimes, it takes more courage to sit down quietly and refuse to say things that ate mean and hurtful. I think it makes you a better person. Love is the greatest blow you can give to anyone; you will always win when you have a good heart. “So, I have never supported attack on anybody in any form. I am not even happy when people attack people on the basis that they are defending me  or that I was attacked. You know today, anybody with a phone and with data on the phone is an authority. There is nobody who can stand here and control what other people will say. “But for me as a member of my party, the All Progressives Congress, I want to use this opportunity to appeal to those youths who are members of the APC, please, do not attack any of our leaders. Don’t attack Rotimi Amaechi on social medi, don’t attack Dakuku Peterside no matter what he says, don’t attack Davies Ikanya, don’t attack Dump Lulu-Briggs, don’t attack Emeka Bekee; they are not your problems. “If you have issues that you want to articulate and you are not satisfied with the way people are doing things, say so to them politely, respectfully. But a lot of things I see contain no idea whatsoever and will not help in moving the party forward in anyway. A divided house can win no battles. “We must be very careful, some of the persons who are doing things to divide the house may not be interested in the success of the house because at the end of the day, if we don’t succeed, we will suffer for it.”Abe, who is Chairman, Senate Committee on FERMA declared that he will remain a member of the APC and will never abandon the party for whatever reasons, saying people need to understand that the main dynamics of social cohesion in the state favours the party. The senator said, “Let me say it clearly without any aota of doubt; I am a member of the All Progressives Congress and I will remain a member of the All Progressives Congress. No matter what happens, I will not leave my party, the All Progressives Congress. “But, people  need to understand certain things. In this state, the main dynamics of our social cohesion is in favour of our party. Rivers State is ours for the taking; everybody who knows the story of our state knows that APC should be able to take the state. But to do that, we have to be one party.  “We cannot be in a party where the Minister of Transportation, with all due respect, have stated clearly that what he is running now is his own faction and certain people does not belong to that. That if he is removing leaders, he is removing leaders because they are not part of his own group, not because they are not members of the APC. “Now, if all of us are in the APC and one group is this way and another group is the other way, where will the party meet to take the state? We have a State Executive Committee of the party, the Chairman should call a meeting of the State Executive Committee of the party so that members from all the factions can meet and discuss the way forward.” 