Barely five days after its emergence, the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) has opened talks with the Social Democratic Party (SDP) over an alliance ahead of the 2019 general election. The talks, LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered, is centered on how both political platforms can work ahead of the 2019. A source within the SDP who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity because he is not authorised to talk yet said the possibility of R-APC diffusing into their ranks was not ruled out. “The R-APC has however not ruled out the prospects of defection, as they are still consulting widely on where to go after its emergence last Wednesday”, the source added. Confirming on-going talks between the two groups, the SDP source said, “Yes, we have opened talks with the rAPC and we have made appreciable deliberations. In coming days we will make known the level of deliberations we have had but so far it has been fruitful.” The source however declined to tell whether or not the talks started before or after the R-APC revealed itself to the public last Wednesday. The spokesman of the R-APC, Kassim Afegbua, also confirmed the parley between the two parties, adding that they have also met with other parties and groups. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, Afegbua said, “We are already in talks with some many parties and groups. We are trying to rescue APC from self-inflicted malady. “We intend to correct the culture of imposition not carrying people along that has crept into the party. We are reaching out; our doors are open to every group and party that supports our aspiration.” On whether there is any defection plan, Afegbua said, “We are still holding meetings. We are not going to behave like people we are trying to correct. We will take collective decision on the issue having consulted widely. So, when we get to that bridge, we will know how to cross it.”The R-APC chaired by a former ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, Alhaji Buba Galadima, emerged on the political scene last Wednesday during a press conference. Also, the leader of new Peoples Democratic Party’s (nPDP) bloc within the APC, Alhaji Kawu Baraj, also attended the event. Galadima who passed a damning verdict on the APC at a press conference said the ruling party’s recent local and state congresses and national convention were undemocratic. But the national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, dismissed the group, saying it poses to no threat to APC’s chances in 2019. Meanwhile, the proposal for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to change its name as part of the coalition process has collapsed, It was learnt yesterday. Party sources told our correspondent that the proposal was shut down because those against it argued that the move might affect the party’s identity in 2019. They also argued that since the process might involve getting the certification of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), it might amount to playing into the hands of the ruling party.