Benue state governor, Samuel Ortom has lamented  the level at which all his aides have abandoned him to his fate, describing the act the major challenge his administration is facing. Governor Ortom who made this known during the inauguration of Chairmen and members of board of parastatals and councils said his appointees were unable to stand firm any where and at any time to defend his administration “I want to tell you outrightly that the biggest challenges my administration is facing is the inability of my aides to stand firm and defend this administration,  when the need arises, all those surrounding me have abandoned me, they are not helping me in any way”. He said that the state acceptance of the recent pronouncement of ranching to be established in 10 states including Benue by the Federal government will be based on the provisions in the already existing Open Grazing Prohibition and  Ranching establishment Law 2017 of the state. The governor recalled that even when the 2017 Anti Open Grazing Law was enacted 95 percent of the indigenes of the state stood firmly behind him, adding that the state does not have 5000 hectares of land to contribute to the establishment of the said ranching, “so for us we stand by our law and whoever wants to go into cattle rearing in Benue must do it within the ambits of the Law.” Ortom charged the newly inaugurated board members to work through actualizing the dreams and aspirations of the various parastatals, adding that to whom much is given much is expected. “I wish to recollect that even before our Administration came on board in May, 2015, some of the Boards we are inaugurating today were not reconstituted. The implication is that running of the Parastatals as well as their services have not been at optimal level. But as we inject some new blood in them, we are hopeful that they would perform better for the good of Benue people and the state, “ he stated. .While congratulating the appointees, the governor urged them to  have it at the back of their minds that they came to serve at a time that challenges are numerous but the people’s expectations are high. “ I want to encourage of you chosen today as board chairmen and members to work towards facilitating service delivery and development to the people of Benue state, that is the aim of injecting new blood into the system,” he said. While  commiserating with Governor Simon Lalong and the entire people of Plateau state over renewed attacks in the state by herdsmen which have left many innocent people dead and property worth millions of naira destroyed, Ortom  said the perpetrators of the dastardly act must be brought to book. Governor Ortom also condemned the attacks and described the killing of children, women and other vulnerable people in Barkin Ladi as barbaric, inhuman and unfortunate.