National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has again reacted to the recent declaration by the Reformed All Progressives Congress (rAPC), saying that the leader of the group, Buba Galadima, cannot define the stakes for APC. Oshiomhole, also added that the group can be ignored and the party will still win the general elections in 2019. He said this yesterday, when he received in audience, a group of former state chairmen of Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), who came to show loyalty to the party. Oshiomhole said his leadership has started meeting with genuine members who have genuine grievances but can afford to ignore Engr Galadima’s group. “We listened to Buba Galadima. It is as if a very hungry bird is dancing at the centre of the road and a disgruntled drummer, not far away in the bush, is drumming for him. But, this is not to say that we are not aware that there are challenges here and there, but anything about APC is considered much more than the sum total of all the challenges we have in many of the states and by the special grace of God, we shall overcome them and we are already overcoming them. “I am very confident that we can afford to ignore Buba Galadima. And like I said yesterday, I’m ready to go to any length to talk to people who mean well and who have genuine grievances arising from communication gaps or misunderstanding or even from the error of judgement on the part of anyone or even from the way we have managed our patronage. “Protests like these are acknowledged and we are working to resolve them. When we see people who have genuine grievances, we are not ashamed to talk to them. We recognise that democracy is an equaliser and only people who are humble enough to engage can survive and we have been engaging. “We have been meeting with various individuals and groups, who we believe, really have genuine concerns on certain matters and we are making progress but when we see people who don’t mean well, there are a lot of idle people who don’t have any other thing to do and once they don’t have access to national honey pot, then they begin to complain. “While calling on all members of APC to remain calm, Oshiomhole also encouraged President Muhammadu Buhari not to be distracted by the antics of some people he described as “rebels” in the party. “For me, there is no cause for alarm, nobody should panic over one Baba Galadima, whose group, I believe, can not define us in the next election in 2019. “Nigerians are wise, they know that corruption is fighting back, they also know that President Buhari’s resolve to fight corruption must elicit a counter force and that force must find attraction in some people but like we have rightly said, we should not be distracted and we encourage the president not to be distracted. He must remain focused and sustain the fight and I believe the rebellion will be crushed using the superior power of argument and persuading our people not to forget in a hurry where we are coming from.”