Fortis Mobile Money (FMM) Brand Ambassador,  Mr Klint,  (Klint Da Drunk),  with the management of the firm, brought succour to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs)  in Kuchigoro, FCT, with relief materials. Speaking at the event, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Fortis Mobile Money, Mr. Oladimeji Samuel, said the gesture was part of efforts to assist the government in achieving  the Sustainable Development Goals, (SDG) by 2030. According to him, the company is hoping to extend the gesture to all IDP camps across the country with a focus on eradicating extreme hunger and poverty and enhance productivity of the people in IDP camps. Represented by Chika Francis-Ndukwe, Samuel stated that about 70 per cent of the country’s population is poor, just as she stated that starvation might be a problem at the back of the rise of IDPs. He said, a lot of children die every year in the country as a result of hunger, adding that the firm has come to support government efforts to eradicate poverty in country. Speaking to the IDPs, Samuel said “We have heard of your food needs,  education needs; schools, teachers, books. We have heard that you need good food to eat, and that is why we are here”. He stated that development and productivity should be a combined effort between the public and the private sector, opining that there was  need for local and international NGOs to support federal government to ensure that the needs of displaced persons in various IDPs camps across the country are met. The breakdown of items donated include bags of beans, garri, rice, cartons of noodles, packs of drinks, books, packs of pencils and pens, clothing materials and other items. The company representative also sensitised the IDPs on the importance on immunisation and family planning. The Brand Ambassdor, Mr Klint (Klint Da Drunk), said the donation was an initiative geared towards supporting government’s efforts of revitalising and rehabilitating the IDPs. Speaking on behalf of the IDPs, the Chairman of the new Kuchingoro camp, Mr. Emmanuel Philemon, thanked Fortis Mobile Money for the donation. He appealed to government for soft loans to enable them carry out farming activities for self-sustainability rather than depending on relief materials from NGOs.