A combined force of the presidency, leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and governors elected on the platform of the party have reinforced plans to defuse the reformed All Progressives Congress (rAPC) and checkmate any threat it may pose ahead of the 2019 general election. President Muhammadu Buhari and APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had last week made frantic efforts to stop prominent leaders of the rAPC and the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) from dumping the governing party. While Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and some APC governors had last Thursday met with Senate President Bukola Saraki, Oshiomhole who had earlier met with Saraki, Speaker Yakubu Dogara and other bigwigs in the rAPC also visited leader of the group, Buba Galadima at the weekend. LEADERSHIP gathered yesterday that Oshiomhole at the weekend also met with the chairman of the party’s convention committee and governor of Jigawa State, Abubakar Badaru; Kebbi State governor, Senator Atiku Bagudu and Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, at his (Oshiomhole’s) campaign office. Competent sources at the the meeting told our correspondent that discussions at the meeting bordered on the state of the party’s preparedness in the event of litigation against the leadership of the party spearheaded by rAPC. It would be recalled that some rAPC members had gone to court to invalidate the election of the APC national chairman and other National Working Committee (NWC) members who emerged on affirmation at the convention. It was also learnt that in the face of a parallel presidential primaries by the rAPC and its likely implications, the party is adequately preparing to face the splinter groups should all attempts to woo estranged members of both the rAPC and the nPDP fail. One of the sources however told LEADERSHIP that the leadership of the party is bent on placating aggrieved members of the groups with the assurances of being accommodated one way or the other. The source who did not want his name in print said, “I am aware that the new leadership of the party is discussing with various members and former members of the party to forestall any imminent defection. “Any major defection will not be good for the party ahead of the 2019 elections. They have to, at some point, shift ground in the hopes of pushing some key people out but I am aware that some people will leave to actualise their ambitions elsewhere”. They’re Having Sleepless Night– rAPC But the rAPC maintained yesterday that the sleepless night leaders of the APC are having will amount to nothing, saying no matter the offer being put on the table to woo back its aggrieved members who left the party recently to save the ruling party from the imminent defeat it is to be confronted with soon, they won’t budge. In a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Prince Kassim Afegbua, the rAPC said it is too late in the day, as so many waters have been left to travel under the bridge. According to the group, it is rather funny that the APC is coming back to eat its own words as it goes hand in cap pleading its members “not to leave by dangling juicy carrots and promising them heaven and earth”. It described the disposition of the APC as  “double standard”, noting that it was the same reason that led to the birth of the rAPC haven considered that the APC has never kept to its own words. The rAPC said the recent invitation of the Senate President Bukola Saraki to Aso Rock by President Muhammadu Buhari after being dehumanised, humiliated, criminalised, persecuted and disgraced is enough reason to show that the APC is a two-edged knife, noting that no amount of juicy offer would cause Saraki to have a rethink over his decision to leave the party. Afegbua stated: “It is interesting to suddenly see Mr President holding meetings with the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, reportedly promising mouth-watering offers; the same leader who was ridiculed, scandalized, demonized, criminalized and called all sorts of names by agents of the presidency just to give the Senate President a bad name in order to hang him. “As soon as the Supreme Court gave a resounding verdict on the trumped up and frivolous charges against the Senate President, Mr President suddenly felt a need to praise the judiciary for standing on its own. Hmm, power as they truly say, must be a crazy aphrodisiac. “Never a time has the number 3 (three) citizen of Nigeria been so dehumanized, criminalised and disgraced in such whimsical manner while all the present reconciliators kept conspiratorial silence, waiting for the sledge hammer to fall on the Senate President. They tried all tricks, mounted all manner of pressures, raised all dubious allegations, just to nail the Senate President. “They were short of calling him a promoter of armed robbery; they linked his name to the Offa Robbery and improvised all biles to rubbish the institution of the Legislature. They striped him naked in the market place and now desperately trying to bath him with ornaments in the inner fortress of Aso Rock”. The statement continued: “Pronto, all the political conspirators in the APC swoop into dubious reconciliation assignment, hopping from door to door at the thick of the night to strike deals of reconciliation. Those who said they won’t lose sleep over the R-APC, have become sleepless in the last two weeks “Does anyone need to be reminded that caveat emptor should be the operative words? Those who pleaded in the past, short of kneeling before their subordinates, ended up in the political belly of their benefactors when the re-election was concluded. It is an albatross that some people are still carrying till date”. The rAPC further declared that despite desperate moves by the new leadership of the APC, there is no going back because the party can’t be trusted. It noted: “It is too late in the day. The train has left the station. Leopards cannot change their spots no matter how much one tries to tame them. We enjoin all our members to remain steadfast and resolute in defending their rights and taking the appropriate action in defence of democracy. “This democracy must survive on ethical grounds and not on lawlessness and exclusion. It must provide a level playing grounds for all participants. Those who prevented some persons from visiting their states in the name of politics have suddenly realised that they need the services and support of those persons. They are now pleading, ready to submit to all demands”. We’ll Leave APC With Or Without Saraki, Says Baraje Meanwhile, leader of nPDP bloc, Abubakar Kawu Baraje, has said with or without Senate president Bukola Saraki, members of the group will leave the ruling APC. He noted that as far as he and his supporters are concerned they have taken a decision and they are about to reach the final stage of such decision. Baraje expressed shock at what he termed the desperation of the APC to woo the Senate president, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and other aggrieved members of the party. He said, “If the Senate president feels it is fit for him to stay back, all is well and good. But the Senate President, as a leader, also has his supporters and followers and if they have decided to leave the party, I don’t know what he (Saraki) will still be doing behind. “The followers of the Senate president, particularly from Kwara State and across the country, have already resolved to leave the APC with or without Saraki. So, it is now left for the Senate President to take a decision more so that he is an experienced and seasoned politician.” He further said the juicy positions being promised Saraki and others are rather too late, adding that they are coming on the “eve of the 2019 general election.” Baraje who noted that he is not aware of such offer wondered why such offer would be coming after three years in office of the present administration of the APC under President Buhari. “As far as I know, there is no juicy position that can replace the kind of embarrassment, debasement and horrifying experiences many of us have suffered and gone through in the hands of some few mischievous members of the APC. It is quite unfortunate,” he stated. Story Of Juicy Offers Not True – Saraki But Senate President Saraki yesterday debunked speculations about juicy offers being made to him and his associates as part of the on-going discussions with the Presidency and leadership of the APC. He said what is at stake is the future of the country and its democracy and that it will be myopic for anybody to be talking about whether certain offers have been made to an individual or if such offers would be accepted or not. In a statement signed by his special adviser on media and publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki expressed dismay over reports suggesting that promises of money or oil block and nomination tickets were made to persuade him to remain in the party. He said those viewing the on-going development in that context are simply reducing a major national issue involving many key actors to that of personal benefits and preferences. He stated: “I believe at this point, it is important for me to make some clarifications, end speculations and make my position clear. It is important for Nigerians to know that the discussions that I and many others of like minds are having with the Presidency and the leadership of All Progressives Congress (APC) is not about me and what I want. It involves the future of our country and her democracy. It is about making things better for our people. “Though there are many speculations being peddled in the media, let it be known these discussions are not about me. Whatever has happened to me in the past has passed. Now that God in his infinite mercy has vindicated me, I have moved on, believing that we have all learnt our lessons. “As I said in my statement following the Supreme Court Judgement on July 6, I cannot hold any grudge against any individual. I have forgiven all those who played any role in my persecution and likewise, I have asked for forgiveness from all those that I wronged in the past. Our focus should now be about Nigeria”. The Senate president continued: “The major issue on the table for discussion is how to strengthen our democracy, rebuild our economy, stop the spate of insecurity, improve the conditions of living of our people and generally chart a course for the development of this great country. “We will be insulting Nigerians if, as the 2019 elections draw nearer, our deliberations is about personal benefits or how to pay compensation for wrongs done to an individual. “As for my political future, we just need to continue to engage with others, listen to advices and exchange ideas because the decision is not that of mine alone. It is for all our supporters and associates to deliberate upon and take a decision based on the overall interest of our people. It is my prayers that Almighty God will guide us right in all our decisions and make a positive turn-around in our country”. Gang-up Against PMB Dead On Arrival– Masari Meanwhile, Katsina State governor, Aminu Bello Masari, has said no gang-up against President Muhammadu Buhari in the buildup to the 2019 general election will succeed. Speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP in Abuja yesterday, the governor observed that, while political gang-ups have never worked in Nigeria, the current one staged against the president will never work, as it is dead on arrival. He noted that those stage-managing what is being peddled as gang-up against Buhari are those who are embittered that the president has blocked all channels from where they were looting the country dry and since they have being blocked from stealing funds meant for the development of the country, they are using all avenues to ensure that they get rid of the president who is their nemesis. The governor said, “All the gang-ups against President Muhammadu Buhari will fail. 70 per cent of the people who are ganging up are those who lost out in 2015. The remaining 30 per cent are the ones that matter to APC. We are concerned with the 30 per cent who are part of us, and we are working to address their grievances. “But the other 70 per cent are the usual opposition that has been running from pole to pillar, trying to stop Buhari. They and their grandmasters, some of them are not carrying their faces. Masari however noted that the party is doing all it can to pacify genuinely aggrieved members of the APC who, one way or the other, feel offended. He stated: “For those with whom we worked together to bring APC to power in 2015 who are aggrieved, we will move to stop their defection, if not, at least to reduce it. “I think that it has been demonstrated in the just concluded Ekiti governorship election that APC is the party to beat.” Nigerians Have Rejected PDP – Oshiomhole Meanwhile, national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has dismissed the threat by PDP that it will boycott the 2019 general election, saying that Nigerians had rejected the opposition party over what it termed “16 years of absolute misrule”. He also said that APC has dismantled the PDP rigging machine, which explains the threat to pullout of the 2019 elections, even as he further charged the PDP to brace itself for another round of defeat in Osun, much than Ekiti and subsequently in 2019. Oshiomhole who spoke when he received report of the Osun primaries from the Governor Abdulazeez Yari-led panel at the party’s National secretariat added that the success of the direct primary adopted will largely be replicated in future elections. He said, “Let me also use this opportunity to comment on what l read about the PDP chairman. I read him threatening that they may boycott 2019 general elections. When a rabbit in the afternoon jumps out of its hole, not because the hunter has come to smoke it out, and it is running you will know that it has already see its end. “The truth is that we are not desperate; we have worked hard to defeat PDP while they were in power when they had no faction, when all the founding fathers and founding mothers were in the same house. “Nigerian people rejected them on account of 16 years of absolute miss rule at the peak of our prosperity as a nation when oil sold for a $140 per barrel, and we came in when oil price has dropped. If with all those huge revenues that accrued to them people complained of bad roads whether from the South to East, from the North to the West, they have nothing new to offer to the Nigerian people. “I think they are hunted by their own ghost and this is because they had perpetrated a do-or-die politics and it is on records that to them, election matters are do-or-die affair”. Oshiomhole, Buhari Jittery – PDP But the PDP yesterday declared that the national chairman of the APC, Oshiomhole, has become jittery over the mega coalition involving it and 38 other political interests. The PDP, while describing Oshiomhole as a factional chairman of the APC, said his fear of the coalition caused him to resort to hauling misdirected insults and abuses at the PDP. The opposition party added that Oshiomhole’s resort to insults betrayed his confusion as he seeks to cover his “personal vacuity and inner fears of the inevitable defeat awaiting President Muhammadu Buhari and his dysfunctional APC in 2019.” A statement by the national publicity secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the PDP had pity for Oshiomhole, who is now going around cap in hand and begging the same compatriots whom he had earlier called names like ‘inconsequential’, ‘hungry birds’ and ‘tired feet’ not to leave his party. “Unfortunately for Oshiomhole and his presidential sponsor, events of the weeks ahead will clear all doubts that the APC is dead and that Oshiomhole is just an undertaker, whose job is to cremate it,” it said. The PDP added that while it understands Oshiomhole’s frustration over his inability to stop the coalition, the fact remains that he and President Buhari are fighting a lost battle in trying to destroy it.