Three young ladies who were allegedly lured into prostitution in Lagos have confessed that they normally have sex with at least 10 men per day in order to meet their target. The victims, identified as Helen Dickson, 22, Deborah David, 18 and Chinwedu Oyekachi, 18, were said to have been rescued by operatives of the Federal Special Anti Robbery Squad (FSARS) attached to Lagos command on July 1st 2018, at Wagbas Hotel in Ajah area of the state following credible intelligence. It was reliably gathered that they were trafficked from Imo, Rivers and Akwa- Ibom states into Lagos by the duo of Ikechukwu Egbulefu, 27 years and Vera John, 26 years, with a promise of good job and better living, only to end up being sex workers. In a chat with journalists on Monday during a press briefing at the Lagos State Command Headquarter, Ikeja, the victims disclosed that they were lured into the prostitution business with a juicy promise. They claimed that they sleep with at least 10 men everyday in order to enable them meet their target as demanded by their captors. They also claimedthat they were taken to an herbalist in Ijebu-ode area, where their pubic hair was shaved and an oath taken to prevent them from.absconding from the hotel. ” I was brought from PortHarcourt, they told my mother that they are going to get me good job in Lagos and live fine, only for them to bring us into the hotel and ask us to sleep with men. At least we use to sleep with 10 men in a day to make enough money and they use to collect the money from us”, Deborah David stated. The suspects who confessed to the crime, however stated that the victims were brought to Lagos and engaged in the business with their consent. One of the suspects. Vera John, in a chat with journalists also confirmed that the victims were taken to am herbalist, but with the intent of procuring some concoction that would boost patronage. ” We told them what they are coming to do in Lagos before bringing them. We rent the hotel room for them and in the morning, they bring whatever amount they make over night to us. They at times realise N6,000, N10,000 or N15, 000 depending on how market moves”. “Out of the money, we do pay N6000,00 for the hotel room. N1,800.00 for feeding and keep the rest for them “, Vera confessed.a ,Earlier the Lagos State Commissioner of Police Edgal Imohim disclosed he had directed that the matter be investigated and suspects arrested based on the strength of the information available to the command. Edgal said the victims had narrated during interrogation that they were taken to a shrine in Epe-ijebu and were made to swear to an oath that they would not abscond from the hotel. ” The painful aspect was that after sleeping with various men, they surrender the proceed to Vera John “, the Police Commissioner hinted, adding that the suspects will be charged to court soon.