Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Barrister Solomon Dalung and counsel to ousted president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick and that of the board, Festus Keyamo have at the weekend bickered over the enforcement of Supreme Court’s verdict of April 27, 2018, which restored the orders of the Federal High Court, that set aside the September 30, 2014, election into the Executive Committee of the football. While the minister stated on social media platform that the NFF’s board refused to act on an order served them until it was too late to remedy, Keyamo accused him of false claim and described the person of the minister as a pathological liar. He said neither he nor his clients ever received any order, and the minister did not even draw the attention of Pinnick’s board to it until implementation stage. Keyamo also accused Dalung of working hand-in-gloves with Chris Giwa all along because they’re both from Plateau State. “How could we challenge it when we never had a knowledge of it. The man is a pathological liar. “They kept everything clandestine because they didn’t want any challenge to it until implementation stage. In order words, Solomon Dalung was working hand-in-gloves with Chris Giwa all along because they’re both from Plateau State,” Keyamo said. However, Dalung in a quick reaction slammed President Muhammadu Buhari’s Campaign media director as ‘indecent, untruthful and bad’ lawyer. “A good lawyer talks more in court and not in public domain but a bad lawyer is excellent at crying blue murder, the minister said in a series of message posted by Nneka Nkem Anibeze, his special assistant media. “I don’t know whether things have changed but I know as a fact, that a SAN does not behave like this. “He should give his brief and client more attention instead of blaming it on Dalung. When he won at the Court of Appeal, Dalung was not yet a Plateau man. Is the CJN who delivered the lead judgment from Plateau? Keyamo may soon say that. I believe that Keyamo will also call Justice Kurya of the Federal High Court Jos, a Plateau man. ‘A lazy workman blames his tools. Mr SAN, just do your job by protecting the interest of your client instead of this media/legal drama. We are looking up to you SAN, for good leadership. If these are the angels then hell is empty while the devils are here with us, Dalung added. The federal government had directed the executive committee headed by Amaju Pinnick comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court of April 27, 2018, which restored the orders of the Federal High Court that set aside the September 30, 2014, election that brought them to office. A statement by the Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, said the directive followed a written notification signed by the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) requesting the sports ministry to ensure compliance.