A faction of All Progressives Ruling Congress APC in Oyo State, Unity Forum has defected from the party, merging party structures in all the 33 local government areas of the state with Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s new party, African Democratic Congress (ADC). It was gathered that the step was part of the decision reached after a stakeholders’ meeting held at the party’s house, General Gas area, Ibadan. It would be recalled that some leaders of Unity Forum met former president Olusegun Obasanjo, one of the brain behind ADC in Abeokuta last week where he assured them of financial and moral support. Present at the meeting were the Deputy speaker of Oyo state House of Assembly, Hon Abdul Wasil Musa and some lawmakers, Professor Adeolu Akande, Dr Kola Balogun, Dr Yunuss Akintunde, Chief Remi Olaniyan, Hon Temi Adibi, Hon Wasiu Olatubosun among others. They might likely adopt the elected executives of Unity Forum faction of APC from ward to state level as ADC pioneer executives in the state. When contacted for clarification, Wole Sadare, the spokesperson for unity forum said the details will be made public soon. Meanwhile, a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Dapo Lam-Adesina has declared that he has no problem with the state governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Hon Adesina who also reiterated his commitment to the collective a factional group in the All Progressives Congress , Unity  Forum said “no matter the current acrimonies in our party, Governor Abiola Ajimobi remains my father and my leader. I don’t have any problem or whatsoever with him but I have irretrievably gone with Unity Forum.” The lawmaker representing Ibadan South East/North East disclosed this while addressing  various group of supporters and associates of his late father; former Governor Lam Adesina, constituents, leaders and teeming promoters of the group at his late father popular Felele residence on the development in the ongoing leadership crisis in the ruling party. Dapo-Lam who was besieged by an enthusiastic crowd on his arrival to the venue enjoined the people to remain resolute by not involving any act capable of jeopardizing the prevailing peaceful coexistence in the state.