Mixed reactions over the rising cost of elections in the country has trailed the budget of N242billion recently submitted to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari for the 2019 general election. The civil society organisations (CSOs) in the country argued that the said amount is too high, just as they advocated intensive scrutiny of the proposal by the Senate. But some political parties contended that the amount might not be enough for the general polls. Buhari had on Tuesday written to the Senate requesting the lawmakers to approve the sum of N254,445,322,600 to be drawn from the 2018 and 2019 budgets to prosecute the 2019 general election. While INEC’s budget in the entire sum is N194 billion, security agencies in the country, including the Office of the National Security Adviser, NSCDC, the Nigeria Police Force and the DSS, are to share the remaining amount in the budget. INEC’s director of Voter Education and Publicity, Oluwole Osaze Uzzi, in a TV programme monitored by LEADERSHIP Sunday had hinted that the commission’s share of the budget would be spent on overhead cost and logistics, which include hiring of vehicles, acquiring generators and mattresses for staff across the country. He said, “I can give you a hint on some of the heads covered by the budget which are personal cost. We also have to get enough card readers and enhance them for the elections. Uzzi who underscored the need for upgrade of the card readers, said, “You do know that your laps tops, even in the best storage conditions, don’t work efficiently and effective as they did eight years ago. Technology has moved on. So, with the improvement of technology we have to enhance the card readers and voters cards.” On the aspect of the budget that concerns security agencies, he said he doesn’t have details of the overheads, but noted: “I presume its welfare and logistics. I can only assume.” He however dismissed concerns of transparency over the budget, saying, “We will certainly do the budget defense process and when it is done it will be by way of an appropriation act. “So, it will be an amendment of the appropriation act for 2018 or it will be part of a supplementary budget. We will make it public.  I am sure the National Assembly will make it public,” he added. But the executive director of Policy and Legal Advocacy Center (PLAC), Clement Nwankwo, decried the rising cost of elections in the country, even as he questioned the procedure used in seeking for the funds. In an exclusive chat with LEADERSHIP Sunday, he said, “INEC’s budget is N194 billion. I don’t know why they are adding security money into it. The question is why are we spending so much?” “There is even a more sinister situation here. The budget is being prepared based on virement from existing expenditure head and majority of that virement is coming from monies that the National Assembly has set aside for constituency projects. So, that is even a much more confusing situation with the budget. “We have the DSS with a huge budget as well as the office of the NSA with its own budget. So, I worry why security is taking so much money for elections. Elections are getting very expensive in this country and we shouldn’t be spending this much on elections.” On his part, executive director of Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), Adetokunbo Mumuni, who raised some questions over the estimated figures, charged the National Assembly to diligently scrutinize the election budget. He however noted that the president was only working based on what the security agents and INEC came up with and submitted to him. He added: “If what we hear is that the president relied on figures and estimates from INEC and security agents, then the next question therefore is how are we sure that the amount submitted by INEC and security agents are indeed what they need? “So, it goes back to the same question. Whatever that is appropriated must be fully accounted for and must be transparently spent. That is important in a democracy. In a democracy, there can be no hide and seek. Every little cash must be made open on the table so that a government that is fighting corruption must be seen to be preventing corruption.” On his expectation from the National Assembly, Mumuni said,  “I don’t believe in the transparency of the National Assembly. You remember that Prof Jega who used to head INEC publicly said when the National Assembly says they are doing oversight function, which is part of their responsibility, they end up using it to blackmail people and demand money. “So, if they were doing their work diligently that issue wouldn’t have arisen.I will call on the National Assembly to do this monitoring and oversight work accountably so that Nigerians will have correct value for money”. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday also, the executive director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Mr Auwal Rafsanjani, expressed concern that election is increasingly becoming a serious financial burden for the country’s economy because of lack of proper institutionalisation of election processes. He lamented that issues like voters registration, which is supposed to be continuous, procurements of certain electoral materials, which are not necessarily attached to election cycle period and a whole lot of activities that shouldn’t be attached to election cycle period are causing unnecessary huge election budget. He added: “In other parts of the world, elections are done in a simplistic and less costly way. In our own case, election is done as if the whole country has to suspend all its activities to hold elections, which in many instance after spending all the resources and time, we still don’t get credible results because of electoral fraud, malpractices and violence. So, the question we need to ask ourselves is why is it that in other parts of the world credible elections are done with less cost implication? Why can’t Nigeria begin to learn processes and methods to reduce cost of election? “Until we are serious about organising elections that are not stage-managed or seen to be contract or money making events, we will continue to spend money that is meant to be injected in the economy to address poverty, unemployment and reenergise development in the country. We cannot afford to be spending this kind of huge money when there are other simple methods of reducing cost of elections in Nigeria.” On the other hand, political parties in the country took a contrary view on the amount budgeted for the 2019 general election. National publicity secretary of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chief Anayo Arinze,  who raised concerns over the interface between the presidency and the National Assembly said the budget was not enough. Responding to a question by LEADERSHIP Sunday on the issue, he said, “We see the supplementary budget request as unnecessary and a lame strategy for raising campaign funds for APC for the 2019 presidential election. The dust trailing the 2018 appropriation act is yet to settle and the presidency decided to raise another one through this uncalled-for supplementary budget. “The 2019 elections’ appropriation estimates were captured in the 2018 budget estimates, which President Muhammadu Buhari recently accented to. It is surprising that the presidency is telling the world that INEC and the security agencies are just sending in their estimates for the 2019 general election. “Again, the N242 billion request is too small to be for 2019 election cost. What is it going to cover?  Is it for ad-hoc staff or for electoral materials or for security?  You remember that the National Assembly inserted about 578billion naira in the 2018 appropriation act. Though Mr President has signed it into law, he is still not comfortable with it and he is looking for a way to remove that extraneous insertion by converting to other uses through virement. “They tagged it 2019 election budget so that the public can be set against the National Assembly if they refuse to pass the supplementary estimate. But I know that the presidency is moving towards another head on collision with NASS. Essentially, the so called supplementary budget is nothing but another way of raising campaign funds for APC”. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had also kicked against the N242 billion virement request, which it said had already been approved for other projects in the 2018 budget to finance the INEC and other agencies ahead of the 2019 general. The party while alleging that the request might be a booby trap to drag the elections into a financial controversy and ultimately subvert the entire process, called on the president to immediately submit a fresh supplementary budget or seek other legitimate ways and means, devoid of bottlenecks, to finance the election.