Katsina – born businessman, Hon. Isah Saulawa, has declared his intention to contest the presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019. Saulawa, who made this disclosure while delivering a keynote addresss during the North West PDP social media hnadlers’ retreat held in Katsina at the weeekend, said although he had little political experience he is motivated by his love for the nation and the desire to change the current narratives of  Nigerians. The presidential aspirant, speaking more on the theme  of the retreat:  “Identifying Social Media Role and Influence Ahead of 2019: A Focus on Social Media Handlers,” urged Nigerian youths to join forces with him to oust APC in 2019. He said if given the opportunity to serve, he would address unemployment and provide basic amenities to uplift Nigerian masses. Saulawa condemned the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying the party had ruled for almost four years but the country is not better than when the PDP served Nigerians. He added that it would be counter-productive if  the APC led government is allowed to comtinue to rule the country when Nigerians had realized that the party had no agenda to slvage the nation. Earlier, the Katsina State chairman of PDP, Hon. Salisu Yusuf Majigiri, enjoined youths to expose through the social media the failures that the presnt government represent as it had been unable to live up to its promises. “APC leaders during their campaigns in 2015 promised to fix Nigeria within one year, almost four years down the line, the situation is getting worse by the day,” he stated. Majigiri also expressed confidence that next year’s general elections would be won overwhelmingly by PDP judging by the current socio-political and economic trends into the country. On the gale of defections that hit APC last week, he said: “This is a good signal for the 2019 general elections and also means that the PDP has been doing the right thing. Inspite of all the harrassments and intimidations, we have never taken the laws into our hands; we keep doing the right thing and you can see that it has paid off.”