Ekiti State Governor, Chief Ayodele Fayose, has advised the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki to dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) and return back to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This is as Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Ezenwo Wike accused the Federal Government of using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to probe the finances of Rivers State. Fayose spoke on the sideline of the commissioning ceremony of the 12.2km Obiri-Ikwerre- Airport Road, in Port Harcourt, which was reconstructed by the Wike-led administration. Reminding the Senate President that the best time to leave the APC is now, the Ekiti State Governor informed him that the PDP is behind Saraki. He told the Senate President that APC is now a spent vehicle that can no longer take him to the expected destination. Speaking at the ceremony, Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, who wondered why EFCC is probing the finances of the state, despite a subsisting court judgement yet to be vacated by a higher court, condemned the Executive Order on corruption which he said is unconstitutional. While congratulating the Senate President on his victory at the Supreme Court, Wike stated that Rivers people will always stand by him. Describing the frame-up of Saraki for armed robbery has negative consequences for the country, Wike called for the upholding of the rule of law across all tiers of government, saying that is the only way to attain progress in the country. The governor said, “Any Government that does respect the rule of law is the most corrupt government. This is because you cannot fight corruption without the rule of law. He told the Senate President that his political party, the APC, has not kept her promises to Nigerians, and thanked the Senate President for commissioning the 12.2 kilometre dual carriageway. Commissioning the road project, the Senate President said the Rivers State Governor has made Nigerians proud through the signature project, noting that the road is important because it will enhance investment opportunities in the state. He said, “This is a road that is significant in the sense that it is from here that investors will come into the state. If you stand here and look across, you will be proud to be a Nigerian. Looking up there, I can see Nigeria is working and it can work better”.