As the Nigerian armed forces battle to end the nearly ten-year-old Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, a new Islamic sect known as Hakika and under the leadership of one Yahaya Ibrahim has emerged in Adamawa and  Nasarawa states. In a letter citing security report and written on behalf of the acting commander, 192 Battalion (Main) Headquarters, Nigeria Army,  Gwoza, Borno State, signed by Lieutenant T.G. Iortyom to the Nigeria Immigration Service, the army called on the authorities to watch out for the sect as some of its doctrines and activities contradict known laws. Part of the statement reads: “I am directed to inform you that information received revealed that an Islamic sect known as “Hakika” under the leadership of one Yahaya Ibrahim has emerged around Ngwurore in Yola South LGA of Adamawa State and Toto LGA of Nasarawa State. “It was gathered that the group is currently on recruitment drive, with series of controversial doctrines from non-adherence to five-daily prayers, to non-observance of Ramadan fasting,  promotion of fornication and adultery among others. “In view of the above,  I am directed to request you disseminate this information to your men and monitor activities of the newly formed sect in your area of responsibility accordingly.” A military source who spoke  with LEADERSHIP on anonymous condition said the military high command had just seen the memo and that if there is any group like that, the military high command would know what to do about it. “That information just got into the military high command and they are thinking of what to do about it,” he said. Meanwhile, the police in Nasarawa State have declined to speak on the existence of the Hikima Islamic sect in the state. Police acting public relations officer,  Nasarawa State Command, Ismaeel Uthman, told our correspondent, “I have nothing to say for now.” When our correspondent prodded the PPRO to confirm the existence of the new sect, he simply said, “The issue is above my capacity.” However, the executive chairman of Toto LGA of the state affirmed that there was a security alert that such a group exists in the area. “I received a letter that a group called Hikima Islamic sect is in my area  and I have directed the SSS (Directorate of State Services) to swing into action to ascertain the true position of the matter. “This is a very sensitive security matter. I will not say anything for now till we gather all the necessary intelligence report, and I will report to the governor before making statement,” he said. LEADERSHIP’s investigation indicates that the group exists and is training its members in isolation in the area. A prominent native of the area who begged for anonymity told our correspondent, “I heard of something like that but I don’t know the location.” He called on the authorities of Toto local council and the Nasarawa State government to investigate the allegation against and handle the issue expeditiously.