Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has raised the alarm of over a fresh plot to arrest the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki Frank in a statement in Abuja alleged that he has reliable information that the operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) have been allegedly ordered to raid Saraki’s residence any moment from this night and effect his arrest. He described the plot as an act of desperation and utter wickedness by the security agents who are overly eager to redeem their image following the failure prevent the Senate President from attending the sitting of the Senate on Tuesday where 15 APC lawmakers defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said “Recall that the police on Tuesday morning laid siege on the residence of the President of the Senate and that of his deputy in a bid to arrest and prevent them from attending plenary. Saraki was able to escape and presided over the Senate. “I hereby call on all Nigerians and members of the international community to rise in unison to condemn this act of tyranny and barbarity being perpetrated against the President of the Senate by the present administration using the police. “As you read this statement the SARS may already be storming the residence of the President of the Senate and I want to call on Nigerians to hold the IGP and the presidency responsible should any harm befall him following the plot to  invade of his residence in the dead of the night,” Frank said. He added that Saraki is a respectable and responsible leader who cannot hurt a fly, saying all efforts being made by this administration through the police to pin the Offa Robbery allegations on him will once again collapse like the CCT trial. “They are only out to victimize Saraki for being the only responsible voice in this administration. They know that their allegations cannot withstand   lose legal scrutiny, therefore they want to intimidate, embarrass, arrest and treat him like a common criminal. “But am rest assured that their present satanic plot against Saraki shall be frustrated by God who has been standing by him in the last three years,” he said. He called on Nigerians to pray for Saraki as he faces this monumental trial once again.