****To Unveil Policy Document After months of consultations with critical stakeholders in his party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  and Nigeria, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, will on Saturday formally  declare to contest the 2019 presidential election under the PDP. A press release from the media office of the former Vice President stated that Atiku will be making his declaration at a political rally in Yola, the capital of his home state of Adamawa. Atiku, who returned to the PDP under which he served as vice president last year has since made know his intention to seek the top seat, a position he has sought since 2007, under different political platforms, most recent of which was the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015. He will be contesting for the PDP presidential ticket against some  governors namely,  Sule Lamido (Jigawa), Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna), Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano), Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto). Other aspirants under the PDP are former minister for special duties,  Kabiru Tanimu Turaki and Senator Datti Baba-Ahmed. But according to the press release, Atiku’s decision to join the presidential race in 2019 is in response to the yearnings of majority of Nigerians to enthrone a government that will fix the country’s broken economy, strengthen national unity and create much-needed jobs for Nigerians. “After extensive consultations with his family, Nigerians of diverse dispensations at home and abroad, His Excellency Atiku Abubakar has decided to make a formal bid for the 2019 presidential election race under the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)”, the statement said. The media office noted that the former vice president has embarked on nationwide consultative visits to many states across the country where he met with stakeholders in the PDP. He has visited all but one of the states in the South-South geo-political zone, as well as some states in the South-East geo-political zone. “Just this week, the former Vice President and leading presidential hopeful, embarked on visitations to states in the North-East zone where he met with stakeholders from Borno, Yobe, Gombe, Taraba and culminating with a grand rally in his honour by the Adamawa State Peoples Democratic Party in Yola on Saturday, 21 July.” The release however noted that the consultative visits to other geo-political zones of the country will continue in after the formal declaration. It further added that Atiku’s declaration today will be followed with the unveiling of a policy document that will give a clear direction to the solutions that the former Vice President hopes to bring to bear in governance if elected president of the country. “The campaign’s policy documents being baked by policy experts from diverse backgrounds and youth professionals across the country will be unveiled as soon as the process is concluded. “The policy document covers a large area of Nigeria’s national life including the economy, restructuring, education, healthcare, agriculture, youth and women development among many others”, the statement added. The statement thanked PDP stakeholders from states already visited for the warm reception accorded the former Vice President and his delegation and remarks that “Atiku looks forward to a robust consultation in visits to other states on his schedule.”