The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is walking a tightrope in terms of funding ahead of the 2019 general election, chairman of the commission, Mahmoud Yakubu, lamented yesterday. While President Muhammadu Buhari had recently sent a letter to the National Assembly seeking the approval of N242billion for the conduct of the 2019 elections, the lawmakers proceeded on a two-month recess last week. Speaking at a retreat organised by State House Correspondents on ‘Covering Election Campaigns’ at the Epe Resort in Lagos, Yakubu said the commission is facing funding challenge ahead of the 2019 polls. He however assured that the electoral body will seek other sources of funding to ensure that its plans are not grinded to a halt. The INEC chairman who was represented by the Lagos Resident Electoral Commissioner, Samuel Olumeku, said, “As you know, our procurement process is very cumbersome and to make a procurement, it may take up to four months and this may affect what we are doing at INEC. “But we may be forced to look at other sources of funding so that our preparation for the 2019 election is not affected”. He also noted that INEC has an extensive process of preparations for every election, adding that “when we are not conducting election, we are out there educating the people”. The commission’s chairman also expressed worry over the problem of vote buying, which he described as worrisome. “Vote buying has taken a frightening dimension”, he said, assuring that INEC has put in place measures to tackle the challenge. Yakubu further lamented that the 2018 amendment to the Electoral Act has not been assented to, a situation he said may make the commission to jettison the Act unless it comes into effect not later than six months to the election. He said, “As you know, we work with rules and the 2018 Electoral Act is expected to guide the conduct of the 2019 general election, but we may not be able to use it unless it comes six months before the general election “We need a budget to be able to run the election. Any law that does not come into effect six months before the election cannot apply to the 2019 general election”. On cloning of voters card, he assured that such cards will be rejected by the smart card reader, adding that “you cannot vote with such cards”. The INEC chairman advocated a rejig of its election spending rules to include spending by individuals who want to support candidates. “As it is now, as a person, you can spend any amount to support any candidate or political party but the law only allows INEC to scrutinise the books of the political parties”. He also cautioned the media against reports that tend to discourage voters from turning out to vote, especially as it affects heightening of security risks. “INEC lacks facilities to print voters card at the spot of registration, which is why it issues temporal cards”. On his part, chairman of THISDAY Editorial Board, Segun Adeniyi, who presented a paper titled, “Covering the Presidential Villa During Campaigns; Between Professional / Sentimental Interest”, said reporters must maintain delicate balanced reporting in the presidential villa. He also urged reporters to avoid sensational reportage, including stories that have no attribution, saying, “There are lots of misinformation going on, do not allow anybody to use you”. Adeniyi who recounted his experience, both as reporter and later special adviser on media and publicity at the presidential villa noted that reporters must be both accurate and objective in their reporting. He said, “You must learn to control your emotions and be tactful in handling newsmakers and news. You won’t know the fight other people do on your behalf at the background. It won’t be a sweet story when you have to face the security. “The government just wants to muzzle the Press because they are in power today. They want to see themselves as the custodian of the national security. “Facts are sacred, while comets are free. There is nothing going on today that did not happen in 2015. Let Buhari go today and another person comes in, it will be the same for the new comer. “People should not be so sentimental or emotional to the extent that you become part of the story. These politicians are all the same; try as much as possible to be objective in your reporting. Many people get worked up for people they did not even know. “People get worked up for nothing, that is why we should have an open mind and it should not affect our friendship. People are entitled to their choices but we should be objective”.