The first National Publicity Secretary of Peoples Democratic Party and one time House of reps member for Obudu,Obanlikwu/Bekwarra federal constituency, Hon. Emmanuel IBeshi has declared his intention  to run for governorship position in the 2019 elections in Cross River  State. Ibeshi made the declaration yesterday at the Transcorp hotel in Calabar while addressing a mammoth crowd concerning his gubernatorial ambition saying that the policy thrust of his administration if given the mandate to lead the people he will make entrepreneurship become synonymous with Cross River State adding that under his watch, the state shall become an “investment heaven” so as the economy of the can be stimulated. He said that it was unfortunate that the state which used to be a tourist destination is now forgotten by tourists, lamenting that it was as a result of bad administration that the state owned cable car at the tinapa business and leisure resort is no longer function-able,Institute of technology and management ITM ailing,Songhai Farm which is a phased out project will  all be revived when he come on board as governor. Ibeshi said, “I will make entrepreneurship become synonymous with Cross River State so that the state can be returned to an investment heaven”. “Government has no business meddling in entrepreneurship but has business to come up with good policy framework that can make entrepreneurship thrived”. Ibeshi while reeling out his manifestoes to the crowd asked crossriverians to hold him accountable should he go contrary from the manifesto that he had read stressing that he will give priority attention to the maintenance of work to rural roads in the communities. I promised myself four years tenure. I have seen the flaws that we have. I shall use the position of a governor to correct these flaws particularly when it has to do with the rehabilitation and reviving of the Obudu cattle ranch. “I will initiate entrepreneur ship phase one, I will initiate tinapa phase 11, I will initiate Obudu Cattle Ranch phase 11 to take the state to enviable heights.” ibeshi added. Ibeshi who spoke on the slogan, “Let’s fix Cross River, Let’s rescue Cross River now before it becomes too late adding that him the mandate will afford him an opportunity to complete the 8year tenure of the northern senatorial district whose turn it is to rule the state. The aspirant promised to carry every one along irrespective of tribe and ethnic affiliation in the state adding that governance will be mystified by involving all. Ibeshi said “I promised you transparent government, my government shall be the one that will promote accountability, through regular meetings and need assessment on regular basis”. He said that priority attention shall be given to the taking care of the state royal fathers whom according to him had been abandoned by previous administrations. “Under my watch, I shall strengthened the state traditional institutions “. Ibeshi maintained.