The All  Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr  Kayode Fayemi, appeared headed for victory in yesterday’s  keenly contested Ekiti State governorship election. Indications from 14 out of the 16 local governments in the state showed that  Fayemi, a former governor of the state and immediate past minister of mines and steel development, was ahead of his main rival, Professor Kolapo Olusola of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who is also the incumbent deputy governor. However, against the prediction of bookmakers and doomsday prophets, the people of Ekiti State yesterday came out in large numbers despite apprehensions that the election could be marred by voter apathy following the massive deployment of security agents for the poll to elect a new helmsman to take over from the incumbent governor,  Ayodele Fayose. Governor Fayose’s tenure lapses on November 15. As early as 6:30am, voters whose polling centres were far away from their homes had started walking to their voting units in order to exercise their civic duty, even as  security agents were seen effecting movement restrictions. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the enthusiasm of the Ekiti electorate may not be unconnected with the high level mobilisation drives by the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) which controls the federal government and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which holds political power at the state level. Both parties met with their members and supporters earlier in the week to urge them on the need to turn out massively to exercise their franchise. Yesterday’s gubernatorial race was a two-horse race between the sAPC candidate,  Fayemi, and PDP’s Olusola. Massive turnout of voters was noticed at Odo Ado, Ijigbo, Ajilosun, Adebayo area, Ilorin, Oke-Bola, Atinkankan, Okeyinmi, Oke Ila, Odo Aremu, and Oja-Oba post office areas of Ado Ekiti, the state capital. In many areas, voters were already at the polling units awaiting the arrival of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials and election materials as early as 6:30am to participate in the governorship election. LEADERSHIP Sunday observed that at units 14 and 20 of Ward 8 in Ado Ekiti, people had already gathered in their numbers waiting for the arrival of voting materials. By 7:45 am, security agents and election materials were already arriving in those units and voters were seeing queuing for accreditation. Many voters were also seen trekking from hamlets located at Eminrin and Erunfun along Afe Babalola University Way in the state capital to the heart of Ado Ekiti to exercise their franchise. Voting and accreditation commenced early at Ejigbo ward 04 unit, even as large number of people trooped out at Ward  002 unit 1A, B and C. Also, the election was observed to be peaceful at St. Michael Pry School 2, point 1, 2, 3 and 4. At Ikere, the hometown of the candidate of the PDP, Prof Olusola, people came out in massive numbers to cast their votes for the candidate of their choice. Initially, Prof Olusola was unable to vote as the Smart Card Reader (SCR) consistently rejected his Permanent Voter Card; however, his wife, Deaconess Janet Olusola, was able to vote. Prof Olusola was however able to vote with the intervention of an INEC official who was on ground to straighten out any challenges to the smooth operation of the process. Commenting on the development, Olusola said he could not understand why the SCR rejected his voter card, as  it is the card he uses whenever there is an election in the state. “The fact that I couldn’t vote due to non-recognition of my card by INEC doesn’t mean that I will lose the election,” the deputy governor said. “By the grace of God, I am going to win my unit, ward, local government and the state at large.” He expressed appreciation to INEC for finding a way round the situation for him to vote and expressed satisfaction with the process of the election in his hometown, going by the report reaching him. He alleged that despite the 30,000 officers and men deployed by the police authorities to the state, some APC leaders are still moving about distributing money to voters while the security agencies just watch without doing anything to stop them. “If the security agencies pretend as if they don’t see this, then it’s very unfortunate. The people are not poor and they are wise. Most of them will just take their money and still vote for the candidate of their choice,” the PDP candidate said. Olusola,  however, raised the alarm over what he described as manipulation of the process and an alleged plot manipulate the process. According to him, in various wards, the collating centres were “taken over by armed thugs backed by security agencies as it was before and during the election,” adding that “despite the intimidation and harassment by security agencies, we are still hopeful of winning the election but we are confronted with a clear plot to manipulate the results. “We are therefore calling on all well meaning Nigerians to prevail on the security agencies and INEC to allow the will of Ekiti people to prevail.” However, Fayemi, after casting his vote, described the process as peaceful and credible. The former Minister of Mines and Steel Development,  who voted at Ogilolo ward 11, unit 009 in Isan Ekiti, Oye Local Government Area of the state, expressed confidence that the will of the people will prevail. Fayemi, who voted around 10:45am in the company of some of his aides and party supporters, after being on the queue for about 10 minutes, resolved to sustain and uphold the democracy that was enthroned in the country almost 20 years ago. “Nigerians have decided to choose democracy over dictatorship and authoritarianism; that is why all of us must guard this democracy jealously,” he said. The APC candidate,  however , noted that there were reports that the smart card readers were malfunctioning in some towns and that INEC officials were having a hectic time trying to rectify them. Voters at Ayede Ekiti also lodged similar complaints that while their PVCs were confirmed by the card readers, their fingerprints were not detected by the device. Fayemi said, “With the news we have been gathering around, the process has been okay for now.  So, I have faith in this election and I know the people of Ekiti will judge me based on what I did when I presided over this state and what this government is doing. They can see that the difference is clear.” Also commenting on the election, an APC chieftain, Dr Segun Osinkolu, praised the security agencies and INEC for doing a good job in the election. Osinkolu, who spoke after voting at his unit in Ayede Ekiti, Osinkolu ward 9, unit 002, said the security arrangements were organised in a decent manner, adding that it will add to the credibility of the poll. Meanwhile, the European Union has hailed the electoral process as voting got underway in Ekiti Central and North senatorial districts. Speaking with newsmen at Ayegbaju Ward 4, Unit 002, the European Union Ambassador in Nigeria, Mr Keti Karlsen, hailed the peaceful manner in which the election commenced. Karlsen said, “As at 9:17am, the election has been peaceful. I have been to five polling units and the process has been credible enough. This election is going to be a litmus test to 2019 elections. This election is a precursor to the 2019 elections and its success is very crucial to us. “The EU has been supporting INEC with voter education, how to encourage people with disabilities, among others. “We have seen a large turnout of people and the enthusiasm for people to elect a governor that can represent them well. I believe this election will be credible if it ends like this.” In polling units visited by LEADERSHIP Sunday in Ifaki Ekiti, Ayegbaju, Oye, Iworoko, Imojo, Ayede Ekiti, all in Ado-Ekiti, Ido Osi and Oye local government areas of the state, accreditation and voting were peacefully going on and security operatives were strategically positioned to maintain law and order. Meanwhile, no fewer than three state governors were in Ekiti to support their parties in yesterday’s election. Akwa Ibom State Governor Emmanuel Udom was in Ekiti to support the PDP candidate Olusola while the governors of Kaduna and Kogi states Nasir el-Rufai and Yahaya Bello,  respectively, were also on ground to lend support to APC flagbearer, Fayemi. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State governor, Fayose, has described the governorship election in the state as a national disaster. Addressing journalists after he voted at about 1:25pm at his Afao ward 1 unit 001 polling unit, Fayose said the whole process had been hijacked by the spolice. Fayose said, “INEC meant well, but the process has been hijacked by the police. It is a national disaster. There is danger ahead. You know, we raised this before the election. Despite the 30,000 policemen deployed to the state, as I speak to you, thugs are snatching ballot boxes everywhere under the cover of police. “What they called ‘see and buy’ politics in the country is thriving every day with the police and civil defence giving signs to the voters to come and collect their share to go and vote. This is a national disaster. “I raised this alarm, that this election may be marred by violence, and that is what is happening now. Majority of my people have been arrested by the police. My chief of staff has been arrested. “The security agencies have taken over the responsibility of INEC. The police authorities have refused to pick their calls; you can’t reach any one of them. This is sad.” As the time filing in this report, most polling units had concluded voting,  waiting for vote counting to begin. Close Call Between Olusola, Fayemi Meanwhile, preliminary results trickling in from yesterday’s  gubernatorial election in Ekiti State indicate that the exercise was keenly contested between Olusola and Fayemi. At the time of filing in this report, indications from the results available depict a photo-finish between the two major gladiators in the election,  PDP’s Olusola and APC’s Fayemi. At Unit 11 in Ado Ereguru, ward 12, unit 4, the PDP polled 86 votes against APC’s 78 votes, while in Ologbosere compound/Igbehin, the APC polled 71 votes to PDP’s 125 votes. Also at Famuyibo unit 3, ward 12, PDP polled 121 votes against APC’s 120 votes, while at Sasere Ward 12 unit 1, the PDP trailed the APC, scoring 133 votes to PDP’s 201 votes. At Ward 12, unit 007 in Ado Ekiti, the APC bettered the PDP with 148 votes to 69 votes. The APC also defeated the PDP at Jimba Omo Aluko Ward 12, unit 5 with 148 votes against 78. At Ogbonowo ward 12, unit 8, PDP polled 100 votes while the APC polled 130 votes. In Ward 12 unit 9, also in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, the APC polled 138 votes while PDP garnered 186 votes. At ward 5 unit 2 in Ado/Ijoka centre, the APC polled 96 votes against PDP’s 94 votes, while at Asasa compound ward 12 unit 10, the APC garnered 167 votes against PDP’s 166 votes. The APC also showed its presence in Adeyinka Jimba/Ereguru Ward 9, unit 8 with 171 votes against PDP’s 129 votes. But the PDP had an upper hand at Eleyowo/Ododa Fidado ward 8 unit 5, where it polled 148 votes against APC’s 90 votes. In Ikare Ekiti,  at the Ogoga palace, the PDP polled 382 votes against APC’s 118 votes while at Okeruku, the PDP candidate’s polling booth, the PDP won with 270 against APC’s 81. Some observers say the keen contest between the two political parties could be attributed to the fact that the two parties picked their deputy governorship candidates from Ado Ekiti, the state capitals and the most populous town in the state. Police commend INEC, voters However, the police authorities have commended the electoral umpire, INEC, and Ekiti voters for their peaceful and orderly conduct in yesterday’s governorship election. In a chat with newsmen at Ifaki Ekiti, the Commissioner of Police in charge of Ekiti North senatorial district, Mr Ali Janga, said the people of the state were determined to vote in the governor of their choice. Janga is one of the three CPs deployed to Ekiti by the Inspector General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris, to monitor the election and work with the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Operations, Mr Habilal Joshak. Janga praised the electorate for turning out massively across the state, just as he commended the transparency of INEC in the discharge of its duties “I have visited three local governments and there was no electoral manipulation anywhere. People raised false alarms by sending distress calls to us, but many of them were found to be false when we got there. “Election materials were distributed as early as possible and they were guarded by security. And the turnout was very impressive. With what I have seen, I know that Ekiti people are determined and desirous of choosing a new leader,” he said. Also, a former governor of the state and deputy national chairman, South, Chief Segun Oni, hailed the good conduct of all the stakeholders in the election. Oni said the people of Ifaki Ekiti, his hometown, had resolved to effect the needed change in the town and the state as a whole. He, however, bemoaned the earlier malfunctioning of the Smart Card Reader, which according to him slowed down the process in most areas of the state. He said, “If you make promises and refuse to fulfil it, people will pay you back. Everything has been going well so far.  The SCR was low in my units and few other places but we shall win.” Disregard Election Results On Social Media, Ekiti REC Warns The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Ekiti State, Prof AbdulGaniyu Raji, has warned Nigerians to ignore the trending governorship election results on social media, saying they are illegal. The REC, who stressed that election was still on going as at yesterday evening, said only INEC will announce the authentic results of the elections at the appropriate time. Raji in a statement said, “Our attention has been drawn to the illegal release of result of the 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State on social media. “Consequently, we wish to inform the general public that the Ekiti State governorship election is still on going: counting of ballots is still in progress; collation of results is equally going on in some areas. All the floating news in the social media in respect of the result of the election should be discountenanced by the public. “The announcement of the election result would be made by INEC at the appropriate time,” he said.