Fending off skin lightening allegations and questions on why our elbows or knees are so dark as opposed to the rest of our bodies can be acutely embarrassing to any individual. The insecurity and shame associated with it can render anyone gun-shy about taking pictures or wearing outfits that would reveal the affected areas. The female folks are most often accused of bleaching while the male folks are given contemptuous looks which convey explicitly that they are down-right dirty. Knee and elbow skin is naturally thicker and more prone to moisture loss than any other part of our skin. Dark knees and knees are often caused by dead skin cells which forms due to dryness. Unfortunately, most of us whose parents, school teachers, or relatives practiced “spare the rod and spoil the child” philosophy end up having dark coarse knees and elbows due to the countless kneeling, pick-pin, and other behavioural corrections methods, melted out in order to ensure a responsible and crime free future. The harsh chemicals and products of most of the now popular skin lightening crème range can also be responsible for dark knees and elbows. The good news is that you can easily get rid of dark knees, elbows and even knuckles with the help of a various cheap homemade remedies straight from your kitchen or cabinets. Below are 7 super simple ways to get rid of them. Coconut Oil and Lemon Juice Mix: Mix coconut oil with lemon juice in a small glass bowl. Rub the mix on your elbows and knees and leave for 15 to 20 minutes. Wipe off any excess lotion using paper towels. Coconut oil works as a hydrating agent and natural bleacher while lemon is great for its exfoliating quality. Baking Soda and Milk Paste: Mix a desired amount of baking soda with milk until it forms a thick paste. Apply the paste on knees and elbows, scrubbing continuously using circular motions for three minutes. Leave on for five more minutes and rinse off. Repeat the remedy once every two days. Baking soda reduces skin darkening and is a great cleansing agent while milk lightens the skin Sugar and Olive Oil Mix: Sugar work as great exfoliator and olive oil moisturize the skin, making this mixture a wining combo. Mix olive oil and sugar and apply on your problem areas. Leave on for five minutes and wash off with soap and water. Yogurt and Vinegar Mix: Yogurt and vinegar contain lactic and acetic acid which helps in lightening darkened knees and elbows skin, including scars and pigmentation. Apply the mixture on the affected area, leave on for 20 minutes and then wash it off with water. Turmeric, Honey and Milk Paste: Mix turmeric with milk and honey until it forms a smooth paste. Apply on problem areas and leave on for 20 minutes and then rinse. Turmeric has antiseptic properties, milk act as a lightening agent and honey moisturizes. This mixture is very great for very dry coarse knees or elbows and can be used all over the body to soothe dry skin. Aloe Vera Gel: Cut fresh leaves of Aloe Vera and take out the gel by breaking the fleshy leaf. Apply the fresh gel to the knees and elbows and leave it for half an hour before rinsing off. Aloe Vera reduces sun damage caused to the skin due to overexposure of the elbows and knees to the sun. It also moisturizes the skin and prevents the dryness which is the main cause of dark skin. Cocoa or Shea Butter: These natural fats act as good moisturizers and helps to heal or soften dry or flaky skin. Apply cocoa butter or Shea butter on the darkened skin every night before going to bed.