Strong indications have emerged that the lawmaker representing Kaduna Central zone in the National Assembly, Comrade Shehu Sani, might have concluded plans not to contest for the Kaduna state 2019 governorship race as he is negotiating for an automatic senatorial ticket. Multiple sources in the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) told LEADERSHIP exclusively that the embattled senator is currently in talks with the PDP for second term senatorial ticket, explaining that if the deal seals, Sani would decamp to the party soon. A prominent PDP chieftain in Kaduna who has knowledge of the discussions explained that Sani may not be able to clinch the PDP governorship ticket if he decides to contest with other guber aspirants, it would be better for him to run for second term. “We are discussing in series of our meetings, very soon, a deal will be reached. As a party, our doors are open for all to come in. It will be better for him to run for second term because he may not get the governorship ticket because time is almost up and he is yet to decamp”. Recall that Sani, in different encounters with journalists had revealed that he would vie for the governorship of Kaduna state come 2019. An APC chieftain, Tanko Wusono, said Sani has no chance to either clinch the governorship or senatorial ticket under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as he has no single structure in the party. Recall that Sani and Senator Othman Hunkuyi’s Akida and Restoration groups in the state had last week announced their exit from the APC. Although Sani denied defecting from the APC to any other party, if he decamps and emerges the PDP Kaduna central senatorial candidate Sani will face Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s Political Adviser, Dr.Uba Sani, who is likely to fly the APC senatorial ticket. However, our correspondent who is monitoring the unfolding political events in the state reports that, Senator Sani’s posters for Kaduna central senatorial race without political party on it with captioned ‘2019 Jagoran Talakawa’ were seen pasted in some few locations. Though,Sani, had said that consultations and discussions were still ongoing with regard to his political future: “We the persecuted are on Exodus, riding on horses, chariots and caravans, departing Pharaoh Thutmose’s Egypt.We are now at the coast of the Red Sea, about to leave the land of cruelty and injustice.” Meanwhile,efforts to get Senator Sani or his aide over his next political move proved abortive.