Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday formally declared his intention to contest the 2019 presidency, saying he’ll return his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to power. Specifically, Atiku said he is contesting the 2019 presidential election under the PDP platform to address insecurity, fix the economy and unite the country in a way the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) failed to do in the last three years. According to him, the APC government only succeeded in dividing the people and destroyed the economy more than ever before in the history of the country. Speaking at his declaration rally in Yola, his home state capital, Atiku accused the APC government of creating an atmosphere of insecurity and alarming unemployment rates. He said, “In 1999, I took Adamawa State to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Today, I have returned to reclaim what rightly belongs to the party. The government of APC has failed in uniting Nigeria and has destroyed our economy. “Today, we are divided more than ever before in the history of Nigeria. Today we are witnessing most insecure atmosphere since our existence as a country. “More people have died in Nigeria during the reign of APC than the number of people killed in Aghanistan. We have more than 10 million unemployed youths”. The former VP said noted that what he intends to do if elected is to restore the economy and unite Nigerians. He appealed to supporters of PDP to embrace the party for success in the 2019 general election, just as he promised to take over his home state to back to PDP. On his party, the national chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, assured that the party will accord equal level playing ground in the party. Secondus, who received decamped members of the ruling APC, SDP, PDM and members of the House of Assembly from, as well as chairman of Guyuk local council and eight Councilors, assured level playing ground in the party. Also, Senator Ben Bruce who spoke on behalf of the PDP Senators said the country is going through typical pains of bad economy and increasing rate of killings. Bruce said the country needs a detribalized leader like Atiku who can develop the country. “We can not continue to leave in a country where people are killed every day. We need someone who can salvage and move the country forward like Atiku”, he said. Earlier, chairman of PDP in the state, Barrister Tahir Shehu, pleaded with the national delegates of the party to produce a presidential candidate from the Northeast region. He said unfulfilled promises of the ruling APC made people to look for Atiku who is a credible candidate for the post of presidency.