The controversy over the discrepancy in the amount remitted to the federation account by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has pitched the corporation against the 36 state governments in the country. The forum of state finance commissioners and the corporation have been embroiled in a war of words over what should be the correct remittance to the federation account by the latter. Yesterday, the Forum of Nigerian Finance Commissioners accused the corporation of falsehood for claiming to have paid N147 billion to the federation account as revenue generated in the month of May 2018. The chairman of the Finance Commissioners, Mallam Mahmoud Yunusa, said the NNPC actually remitted only N127 billion to the federation account to be shared as statutory transfer to the three tiers of government by the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC). However, the corporation had replied the states, insisting that it not only met its obligations to the state governments, but even surpassed it by remitting additional N35 billion over and above the N112billion stated in the terms of agreement as the corporation’s monthly remittance to FAAC coffers. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that the FAAC meeting was deadlocked on Wednesday due to alleged under remittance by the NNPC. The minister of finance, Kemi Adeosun had, at the end of the 89th meeting of the National Economic Council (NEC) presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the presidential villa, Abuja, admitted that the FAAC meeting had been stalemated because the amount remitted to the federation account by the NNPC was unacceptable. “We really felt the figures the NNPC was proposing for FAAC were unacceptable. We felt that some of the costs couldn’t be justified, and so we have decided that rather than approve the accounts, we will go back and do further work. So we have been going back and forth with NNPC to try and understand these figures before we can accept them,” she had said. The minister, however, expressed hope that the meeting would soon be reconvened following ongoing consultations and negotiations among the commissioners’ forum, ministry of finance, office of the accountant general of the federation, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and NNPC among other stakeholders. The monthly FAAC meeting is the forum where the country’s national income is distributed to the federal, states and local governments in line with constitutionally agreed template. Making the position of the commissioners’ forum  known in a press briefing yesterday in Abuja, its chairman, Mallam Mahmoud Yunusa,  said from all evidence, the NNPC  was supposed to remit N87.6 billion –  being Petroleum Profit Tax (PTT) – and N60 billion – being royalty,  amounting  to N147 billion, to the federation account against the N127 billion it paid. He also disclosed that whereas NNPC claimed it spent N3.5 billion on product leakage, pipeline vandalism, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), an agency that is supposed to keep such records, claimed ignorance of the amount. According to him, that alone shows there is disparity between the NNPC and the DPR. Refuting the claim by NNPC, Yunusa said:  “NNPC said it has remitted what it was supposed to remit to FAAC. NNPC claims it has remitted N147 billion but what the NNPC actually remitted to FAAC is N127 billion. By law, NNPC is required to remit all funds accrued from the sales of crude oil. Based on our analyses, this N127 billion is inclusive of royalty and PPT. How can that be? By the law establishing these agencies (DPR and FIRS – Federal Inland Revenue Service), royalty should be given to DPR, while PPT should be given to FIRS in line with the law. NNPC has remitted N127 billion and it claims it was expected to remit only N112 billion, even if they had agreed with the governor to remit N112 billion when the oil was sold at $50 per barrel, what stops them from paying more now that the oil price is at $80 per barrel? “DPR confirmed to us that based on the production capacity, the royalty should be at N60.8 billion, so when you add this N60 billion with the N127 billion remitted by the NNPC, it will give you N187.8 billion. The N60.8 billion royalty was supposed to have come through DPR.” Yunusa called on the corporation, as a publicly owned company, to strive to make its operations transparent. According to him, as shareholders and stakeholders interested in the running cost of the national oil company, the major issue they are having with the NNPC is discrepancies in figures. “You don’t expect us to accept and adopt whatever amount remitted to FAAC by NNPC. Oil price is currently about at $80 per barrel and the production is steady. Nigeria is producing about two million barrel per day from which it is expected that the remittance from the NNPC should add value to what the federal government is doing,” he added. The NNPC had, in a statement signed by the group general manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, contended that the agreement NNPC had with the governors was that the corporation would make a monthly remittance of N112 billion to FAAC subject to sufficient funds from sales of domestic crude oil allocation for the corresponding month and after meeting cash call obligations on joint ventures, pipeline maintenance and deductions of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) subsidy. According to the statement,  “NNPC was able to surpass the terms of agreement with the governors on the monthly remittance for the month of June by N35 billion, having taken a cue from their postures by taking from the sum meant for settling cash call obligations,” it said, even as it expressed reservations over the state governors’ additional request of N40billion. When LEADERSHIP Sunday contacted the NNPC spokesman yesterday, he said the issue would be resolved with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who is the chairman of the National Economic Council. A/Ibom, Anambra, Lagos, Sokoto, Others Pay  June Salary Despite FAAC Stalemate In spite of the stalemate that characterised last the FAAC meeting in Abuja, some states like Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Lagos, Sokoto, Jigawa, Cross River and Kano have made prompt payment of June 2018 salary to workers in their states. Reacting on the outcome of the FAAC meeting, the Akwa Ibom state commissioner for Finance, Mr Nsikan Nkan, stated that the steady increase in the price of crude oil without corresponding increase in figures of revenue remitted into the Federation Account has become a regular occurrence, a situation that has resulted in revenue sharing controversy between NNPC and FÀAC. The commissioner expressed optimism that the parties concerned would engage in further negotiations and come to a compromise to resolve the anomaly amicably so as to move the country forward. He noted that civil servants play strategic roles in the development of the state as drivers of government’s policies and programs and, as such, government places high premium on their welfare, hence the mobilisation of funds for this very important obligation to enable workers meet their individual competing needs.