A political drama is currently playing out in Benue State as powerful forcesin Abuja, including the son of the soil arebent on ensuring Governor Samuel Ortomdoes not come back for a second term in office come 2019following hisstance on killings in the state and the enactment of the open grazingprohibition and Ranches Establishment Law and other matters. HEMBADOON ORSAR MAKURDI  writes on the issues That  Governor Samuel Ortom has dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC)is no longer news but what is news now is which party he will align himself with in his re-election aspiration. About a year before now,  if a seer had prophesied that Ortom and his mentor, Senator George Akume would part ways, supporters of the duo would have stoned such prophet but events of the past few weeks have shown that in politics, there is no friend or permanent enemy but permanent interest. Sources reliably told our correspondent that the rift between the duo started during the selection of Tor Tiv the fifth where Governor Samuel Ortom and  the Senator representing Benue North west Senator George Akume were having different candidates and the governor’s candidate was eventually selected. There are strong indications that powerful forces are bent on stopping Governor Samuel Ortom from running for a second term in office over his decision to stand with the Benue people to end the herdsmen killings in the state through the enactment of the open grazing prohibition and Ranches Establishment law, a bill the people of the state unanimously canvassed to the government for enactment. Our correspondent gathered that some powerful politicians within and outside the state are not comfortable with the development based on their personal interest, which they vowed to  replace the governor  without recourse to the wishes and aspirations of the teeming Benue populace. Though government  and its officials  have kept mute over the matter, a development which has brought speculations from angles. Some of the people who spoke including Godwin Aondohemba Tor told our correspondent that as a young man aspiring for the seat of the state assembly come 2019,  he is particularly disappointed with the senator whom they were looking up to as a leader of the party, for turning against the governor because he stood firm with his people and I am saying this not fair and unacceptable. “Iam happy the way things are going  because, this is the time to know who is who and as well differentiate between the goat and sheep” While a former Deputy chairman of Makurdi local government Cletus Abugh also collaborated what the first speaker said, by saying that the whole drama started from the fact that the governor assented to the bill on open grazing prohibition and had insisted that the law would not be repealed when they asked him to do so. “So, today they are bent on denying Ortom the ticket of the APC in the coming election because of his insistence to go with the people and not repeal the law after several threats and intimidation. I want to describe the senator as a selfish senator with selfish interest. Our correspondent observed that the rumour about the governor’s  decision  to  opt out of APC might not be connected with the alleged plan to stop him from contesting the governorship race in the ruling APC . It was also  gathered that the  Federal Government was not happy with Governor Samuel Ortom for confronting the FG on the killings in the state and had allegedly decided to replace him in the forthcoming governorship election . A close source told our correspondent that a one-time House of Representatives member , Mr  Emmanuel Jime who was denied the ticket of the party in 2015 was penciled down to fly the party’s flag in 2019. According to the source, at the Eagle Square, Abuja,  venue of the just concluded APC national convention was flooded with  T -shirts , posters and customised table water, as well as mobile toilets bearing Jime’s inscriptions for the Benue governorship election. Speculations had it that, Akume , whose influence had helped Ortom become governor in 2015, controlled the party structure from ward to state levels in the just concluded congresses. Ortom had recently told journalists that he came to the party without a structure in 2015, hence he was not bothered about the development, adding that the God who made it possible for him to become governor will still do it again. However, our correspondent learnt that Ortom had  already constituted his campaign team at ward and local government levels. One of the aides to the governor told our correspondent in Makurdi on Friday that members of the campaign team were those earlier penciled to take control of party structure at ward and local government levels but were denied the oppotunity . “It is true that we don’ t want to take any chances because it is clear that the chances of our principal to fly the APC ’s flag in the forthcoming election are very slim. It is no longer news that the governor does not control the party’s structure following the signal at the national convention in Abuja a few weeks ago where our governor was reduced to a mere spectator . “His name was not even mentioned for introduction by the master of ceremony . His days in the APC are numbered ; he is just waiting for the appropriate time to move, the only delay for Ortom’s defection is the uncertainty around the party he is moving to. Although the governor through his Chief Press Secretary , Mr Terver Akase  has debunked the plans of his principal to defect  to any political party. “There may be disagreements between the two leaders which is natural but that has been put to rest . The issue of defection is not on the ground at all for now. Also speaking, a business man, Mr Terwase Apera who expressed disappointment with Akume’s action disclosed that there is really nothing to talk about if Akume has problem with Ortom let him come out clearly except he wants to test the reaction of people. “Perhaps they want to test the resolve of Benue people, we will stand with our Governor on this matter and we are prepared to stake our lives to ensure that our grazing law is not suspended as they are planning. “ I want to sound a note of warning, we know all our sons who are collaborating with these blood suckers to take over Benue land for their herdsmen brothers who have destroyed our communities and rendered our people homeless. “In due time we will resist them and make them realize that power belongs to God and He gives it to whoever He desires because no man has God in his pocket”. In another development, the elders and leaders of Masev, Ihyarev and Nongov Development Association also known as  MINDA bloc of Tiv land which Governor Ortom belong to, in one of their meetings vowed to resist any attempt by anyone to deny the Governor a second term in office. After a general meeting of the elders’ council they maintained that all candidates of blocs in the state particularly Tiv tribe have had the opportunity of ruling the state for eight years insisting that Ortom’s case should not be different. At the end of the meeting of the elders and members of the council they resolved to reach  to other blocs in the state to inform them of their position on the matter and the need for Governor Ortom to be supported to complete an eight year tenure as governor of the state. It would be recalled that the  Local Government and Ward Executive members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State during the state congress held in Makurdi endorsed Governor Samuel Ortom and Senator George Akume for reelection in 2019. The party took the decision at the Aper  Aku Stadium after its state Congress elections during the acceptance  speech after the elections, Comrade AbbaYaro, explained that the duo have  demonstrated unequalled wisdom which led to the peaceful party congresses in the state, a development that was difficult to find in other states. The chairman pledged on behalf of other executive members not to disappoint the confidence reposed in them, even as he   promised massive votes for the APC in the forthcoming 2019 general elections.