Elders from Masev, Ihyarev and Nongov Development Association, MINDA geopolitical zone has urged Governor Samuel Ortom to make haste and shop for a new political platform on which to achieve his reelection bid. The elders council under the chairmanship of Senator JKN Waku took the decision during a meeting at the Makurdi residence of the elder statesman. Senator Waku, who was the first to speak said MINDA had in the past, supported other blocks including Kwande, Jechira, Jemgbagh and Sankera to enjoy their turns as Governor of the state and would not allow those whom he said have catapulted themselves into demigods to cause confusion in the state According to Waku, there was no crisis in the All Progressives Congress in Benue state but one person had decided to hijack the party and MINDA has no time to waste struggling over a platform, haven been engulfed by herders crisis. Joe Nyam spoke for Gwer East and Sir Vincent Aondoakaa  for Gwer West while Chief Thomas Ano and Dr. David Tsevende spoke for Makurdi and Guma respectively. According to them, it was the military interruption that cut short the administrations of Aper  Aku and Father Moses Adasu of blessed memory as Governors of the state, Senator George Akume and Gabriel Suswam did eight years as Governor and Ortom’s case would not be different. While assuring the Governor of their unflinching support for his reelection project, the elders said APC-led administration had not been fair to Benue people, hence the need to move en mass to another political party as quickly as possible. They vowed to resist the antics of divide and rule by any individual or group of persons, stressing that when a man marries and divorces several wives, his character should be questioned. Also speaking, Members of the house of representatives  representing Makurdi/Guma,Dickson Tarkighir and Rt. Hon. Avine Agbom of the state assembly, said if Benue people abandon Ortom at this critical time that he had given his all for them, nobody would speak for the state tomorrow, adding that any Tiv man who complains that Governor Ortom had cried too much is an enemy of the Tiv nation. Governor Ortom in a remark said he was overwhelmed by the support of his kinsmen from MINDA to his cause, noting that if it were in developed countries his position on ranching would have been rewarded handsomely instead of the persecution he is currently facing from several quarters. He said he was tired of one man show and wants independence, adding that he was consulting to decide on the next destination.