The Nigeria Police Force has sacked one of its officers who shot and killed a 23-year-old female corps member serving in Abuja during a stop-and-search operation. Linda Angela Igwetu was reportedly shot around 3am on Wednesday, a day before her passing out of the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) programme on Thursday. She was allegedly shot when she brought out her head through the sunroof of the vehicle, shouting for help and saying that she had been kidnapped. In his own account of what transpired, the sacked police inspector claimed that he and his colleagues had flagged the vehicle down, but the driver refused to stop. This, he said, compelled him to open fire on the vehicle and unfortunately hit the lady in question. Miss Igwetu was rushed to Garki Hospital where she eventually died. FCT Police commissioner, Sadiq Bello, who disclosed the dismissal of the inspector said, “Police have taken necessary measures as the policeman that opened fire has been arrested and necessary disciplinary procedures have been concluded. “He has been dismissed from the Force and arraigned before a court of competent jurisdiction and he is currently on remand awaiting commencement of trial.” Bello, however, called for calm, saying, “I am appealing for calm and understanding from members of the public, particularly the family of the deceased, that at the end of the day justice will be done in this matter. “The Nigeria Police, FCT Command, does not condone act of irresponsibility and incivility or outright criminality on the part of its officers and men; they have always been admonished to be civil to members of the public and be professional in the conduct of their duties. “Furthermore, I wish to reassure residents of FCT that they should go about their lawful businesses without fear of molestation or harassment. Their peace and security is guaranteed at all times”, Bello added. 5 Suspects Arrested Over Killing Of 7 Policemen In Abuja Meanwhile, the Nigeria Police Force said yesterday that it has arrested five suspects over the killing of seven Policemen in Galadimawa, Abuja on Monday. Force PRO, Jimoh Moshood, who disclosed this yesterday while responding to the update on the investigation into the killings said it was important to update Nigerians on efforts made to secure lives and property of Nigeria and to ensure adequate security of lives and property. He said, “Few days ago, our Police personnel in Galadimawa were ambushed, attacked and seven of them died in the process. The IGP subsequently directed all Commissioners of Police and all formation to beef up security and set up a special Crack Investigation Team to arrest the perpetrators. “As I speak with you, some arrests have been made in respect of the attacks and more arrest are being made and we would ensure that all the perpetrators that were involved in this heinous crime are apprehended. Specifically, five suspects have been arrested so far.” On the measures being put in place for safety of officers, he said, “Part of the measures put in place is to ensure that police personnel deployed for special duty are properly protected and a team is mandated to ensure that solution is preferred to prevent attack of such nature in future.” He further noted that the IGP, Ibrahim Idris, commiserated with the family of the seven policemen and has directed that all their allowances and benefits are paid to the family. “He has equally directed a befitting burial for the seven personnel that died while on duty of protecting the lives of Nigerians. While some of the policemen have been buried, others will be buried today”, he added. The Police had launched a manhunt for the suspected killers of the seven policemen in Galadimawa roundabout, Abuja, who were killed at about 8pm on Monday by some gunmen. The policemen who were stationed at Galadimawa roundabout were shot at and seven died instantly, while one was wounded.