A political icon, elder statesmen and former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mallam Adamu Ciroma, has passed on . He died yesterday in Abuja at the age of 84. Family sources said that Mallam Ciroma died at Nizamiye Turkish Hospital, Abuja, after a protracted illness. His remains were buried yesterday evening at Gudu Cemetery in Abuja after Islamic funeral prayer at Annur Mosque, Wuse zone 4, Abuja. The deceased had the traditional titles of Dullatun Fika, Galadima of Fika and Madaki of Fika respectively. Ciroma, a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was also finance minister in the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration from 1999 to 2003. The quintessential politician, administrator, journalist and nationalist was survived by one wife, Hajiya Inna Maryam Ciroma, and three children. The younger brother of the late Ciroma, Alhaji Habule Disa, who spoke to our correspondent in Potiskum, their home town, described the deceased as a complete gentleman who made positive contributions to various spheres of human endeavour in the country. He further described his late brother a good citizen and an astute minister who dedicated his life to the unity, progress and development of Nigeria. “Our country has lost a rare breed; a leading light from the old generation has been extinguished. I lost my brother – an honest, trustworthy and elder statesmen. He was a complete gentleman whose honesty, commitment and dedication to the unity of Nigeria would forever be cherished,” he said. On how he received the news of his brother’s death, he said it came as a rude shock to him “but as a Muslim I must bear it in mind that death is something which is inevitable and no matter how long one stays in this world, one day he or she must pass away.” He further described the late Ciroma as a man of undoubted integrity, a silent philanthropist who made meaningful impact on the lives of many Nigerians during his public service years and even after his retirement from active politics. He said, “I’m sure that the people of Potiskum in Yobe State really lost a great and illustrations son, father and Nigerian elder statesmen.” He noted that the late Madaki of Fika played key roles in the political and economic development of the country. “We have had several leaders and statesmen in this country but Madaki was one person whose statements were not sectional; most of his utterances centred on Nigeria as a corporate body,” he added While praying to Almighty Allah to give his family the strength to bear the loss, he extended his condolences to Governor Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe State, the Emir of Fika, and the entire people of the state over the loss. LEADERSHIP learnt that Ciroma, as a senior cabinet minister in the Shehu Shagari administration, he played pivotal roles in the implementation of the president’s agenda especially in the areas of food production and working with international agencies to develop an agricultural development project, ADP Meanwhile, in September 1983, he was made the chairman of a presidential transition committee, which further demonstrated the trust the president had in his capabilities. The committee was mandated to make proposals on how to re-structure the federal government which was going through a crisis of confidence. In his Fourth Republic career, Ciroma is a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which ruled Nigeria between 1999 and 2015. He served as Minister of Finance in the government of Olusegun Obasanjo from 1999 to 2003. In former President Goodluck Jonathan, his wife held the position of Minister of Women Affairs and Youth in the same government. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ibrahim Jirgi, described the death of Ciroma as a great loss to Yobe people and to Nigeria in general. “We have lost a leader and father. He was a great man, not because he had the power of authority or because he served in several offices, but because of the role he played for the unity of this country,” he said. Similarly, former secretary of the Yobe State government, Eng Baba Goni Machina , said the late Madakin Fika, Adamu Ciroma, played a key role in the development of this country both politically and economically,. He said Madaki Fika’s name would continue to be identified with everything positive about Nigeria and its people. “Whenever future generations read about Madaki, they will encounter a man who was cherished and respected by the high and mighty from all parts of the country,” he said. PMB Mourns  President Muhammadu Buhari has received with sadness the news of the passing of the former governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Adamu Ciroma. According to a statement by his special adviser on media, Femi Adesina, the President extended his sincere condolences to the Ciroma family and the government and people of Yobe State on the passing of the elder statesman. The president recalls that Ciroma was a political leader and federal cabinet minister for Industries, Agriculture and Finance at various points in his remarkable life, who will be long remembered for his remarkable service and dedication to the country’s unity, progress and stability. President Buhari also affirmed that the late former CBN Governor will be honoured too for his contributions in promoting democracy in Nigeria and his legacies should be a constant reminder to politicians who wish to work for the good of their communities and our great country. The president prayed Almighty Allah to grant Ciroma eternal rest and comfort the elder statesman’s family, relatives, friends and associates. Nigeria Has Lost A Legend, Says Saraki Senate President Bukola Saraki has described Ciroma’s death as a monumental loss to the country. Saraki, in a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu in Abuja, said that with the death of Ciroma, Nigeria has lost one of its illustrious sons and highly respected elder statesman with vast experience in many spheres of life. “Although death is painful, but it gladdens my heart that the late Ciroma lived a worthy and successful life,” Saraki said. “As a public servant, the late Ciroma’s integrity was unparalleled; as a politician, he was unblemished, and as a journalist, he was among the finest breed. “Indeed there is no word or adjective that will be enough to describe the late Ciroma, considering his invaluable contributions to the development of the country. “We have lost a detribalised Nigerian, bridge builder and a strong pillar for the nation’s unity. He will surely be remembered for his forthrightness and integrity. We shall miss him greatly.” The president of the Senate commiserated with the immediate family of the deceased and the government and people of Yobe State over their loss. While calling on the federal government to immortalise the late Ciroma by naming a strategic national monument after him, Saraki prayed Allah to grant his soul a place among the righteous ones in Aljannah Firdaus. Nigeria Lost An Epitome Of Integrity, Says Dogara  Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has expressed sadness over the death of Ciroma, who described as an “epitome of integrity.” The Speaker, in a statement by his special adviser on media and public affairs, Mr. Turaki Hassan, said the late elder statesman was an “icon of transparency and an epitome of integrity who lived an incorruptible life.” The Speaker further described the deceased as one of the nation’s shining stars and a frontline statesman who demonstrated passion for the unity, progress and development of Nigeria. “Indeed we lost a great man, a patriot, leader par excellence and a shining star. Malam Adamu Ciroma was one of the few surviving close associates of the late Prime Minister, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, and the late Premier of Northern Nigeria, Sir Ahmadu Bello, and he remained a consistent advocate for the struggle to see Nigeria achieve the dreams of her founding fathers. “He was an intellectual genius and highly cosmopolitan public servant who exhibited high sense of patriotism, passion and enthusiasm for the progress and development of the country while serving as the first indigenous editor and managing director of the New Nigerian newspaper, CBN governor and minister of various portfolios in different administrations in Nigeria.” Dogara further described the late Ciroma as an accomplished administrator, uncommon patriot and distinguished elder statesman who lived an eventful, exemplary and accomplished life worthy of emulation. He, on behalf of lawmakers in the House of Representatives, commiserated with the bereaved family, the government and people of Yobe State as well as his associates and admirers all over the country. He Was A Fine Gentleman Who Took Govt Assignments Seriously – IBB Former head of state, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (rtd), has described the death of Adamu Ciroma as a great loss of a man that was passionate about the unity and development of Nigeria. The former president described the late Ciroma as a fine gentleman who took government assignments seriously. General Babangida said: “Although death is inevitable and one day we shall all return to our creator. Indeed, Malam Adamu Ciroma was a rare gem that has versatility and a pillar of national development who had made positive contributions in various sectors of our national life. “I must express my sadness over the death of the elder statesman at this critical moment of our national renaissance and cohesion, when Malam Adamu would have played a prominent role towards proffering solutions to our myriad national problems. “On behalf of myself and my family, I extend our condolence to his entire family, the Fika Emirate and to the government and people of Yobe State on this great loss of a pillar of unity.” His Death A Huge National Loss – PDP The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed grief over the death of one of its founding fathers, foremost democrat, nationalist and statesman, Mallam Adamu Ciroma, saying his demise is a huge loss to the country. The party said Nigeria had lost one of its finest, an incontrovertible patriot who spent his life making inestimable sacrifices for the unity and development of the nation. A statement by the party said that Mallam Ciroma lived as a committed citizen, an astute administrator and highly disciplined politician, who discharged all responsibilities vested in him with unequalled forthrightness and loyalty to the nation. The statement signed by the national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said, “As CBN governor, minister of finance, minister of agriculture and the minister of industry, positions he held at various times, Mallam Ciroma played very vital roles in the formulation and implementation of crucial policies and programmes for economic stability and growth. “On the political sphere, this great Nigerian will be remembered for his roles in ensuring the stability and growth of our nation, and particularly the roles he played in the formation and growth of the PDP. He played a leading role in Group of 34 Eminent Nigerians, otherwise called the G34, that formed the PDP. “He was an embodiment of the ideals and visions of our great party in our pursuit of a prosperous nation where unity, equality and justice prevail. “The PDP is therefore greatly saddened that he left the stage at this trying time in the history of our nation, when his guidance is needed the most.” ACF Mourns Ciroma The apex northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has said it learnt with grief and total submission to the will of Allah (SWT) the passing on of elder statesman Mallam Adamu Ciroma, (Madaki Fika). According to a statement issued by the forum’s national publicity secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, in Kaduna, the late Mallam Ciroma was a quintessential civil servant and politician who served Nigeria in various capacities in the first and second republics as well as the military regimes and the fourth republic. “He was an embodiment of hard work, diligence, selfless service and, above all, loyal to the cause of nation building. He was a great public servant who left an indelible mark, especially as the first indigenous editor and managing director of the first Northern newspaper company, the New Nigerian Newspapers Ltd, and also as the Central Bank of Nigeria governor during the military regime of General Murtala Muhammad. “The late elder statesman would be remembered for his political doggedness, commitment to national unity and selfless service to his father land. Nigeria has lost one of its finest elder statesman, a bridge builder and a leader who lived a simple and humble life”. How Adamu Ciroma Influenced Me – Atiku Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday mourned the demise elder statesman, Malam Adamu Ciroma, saying his (Atiku’s) world view was largely influenced by the early association with the late politician. Atiku, in a statement from his media office, said, “A lot of what I have turned out to be in life today was as a result of the early contacts and mentorship that I had with Adamu Ciroma, who graciously offered me vacation jobs in my formative years.” While recalling his last visit to Ciroma at his sick bed in Abuja on Tuesday, Atiku said “little did I know that, that was going to be the last time I will see the man that I had looked up to as a mentor for several decades”. Atiku condoled with the Ciroma family and the people and government of Yobe State, even as he prayed to Allah to forgive him and reward his good deeds with paradise. He Was A Patriot- CBN The Central Bank of Nigeria has expressed grief over the death of Mallam Ciroma, a former governor of the apex, describing him as a patriot. In a statement signed by acting director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okorafor, the national bank said Ciroma was a firm believer in the sanctity and independence of the CBN. “While we mourn the loss of a very good man, an astute central banker and a patriot, we also celebrate his remarkable life and contribution to the banking industry in Nigeria,” it said.