The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday said it was ready for the conduct of the governorship election holding in Ekiti State tomorrow. INEC has equally assured all the 34 political parties contesting in the election of a level playing ground. INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, told LEADERSHIP Friday that the commission has ensured due process in all its dealing in the electoral process.Yakubu warned both ad-hoc and regular staff of the commission to strictly remain neutral, adding that INEC “will not take any action to the advantage or dis-advantage of any political party or candidate”. On measures put in place to ensure transparent election, INEC said no election material would be tempered with. “If anything, we have introduced additional safeguard to protect the integrity of our manual and electronic processes and procedures,” the INEC chairman said through his spokesman, Rotimi Oyekanmi. He said most materials for the election have already been delivered, noting that all is set for Nigerians in Ekiti State to decide on who would govern them in the next four years. Yakubu said INEC is working with the security agencies and all other stakeholders to ensure a free, fair and credible election. ‘’We introduced additional measure of transparency. We made arrangements for the delivery of personnel and materials to all polling units, undertook intensive voter education and sensitisation, held many Town Hall meetings in Ekiti appealing for co-operation and support, identified potential areas of threat and discussed them at meetings with stakeholders, including the security agencies and generally reassured voters that the commission is ready for the elections”, he stated. The INEC boss reiterated his earlier assertion that the choice of who becomes the next governor of Ekiti State was entirely in the hands of the voters. Yakubu said that only the choice made by the people of Ekiti State at the polling unit will determine the outcome of the election. Meanwhile, the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has called on all broadcasting stations that will be reporting the Ekiti State governorship election to do so in conformity with the provisions of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, especially the provisions relating to coverage of elections. NBC’s Director General, Is’haq Modibbo Kawu, said all broadcast stations have a duty to promote sustainable democracy in Nigeria. He warned that appropriate sanctions would be meted out to any erring station that operates outside the confines of the Code in accordance with section 14.0.1.