The ongoing rift between the chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole and minister of labour and productivity, Chris Ngige will be resolved ,the federal government has said. This was disclosed by the minister of information, Lai Mohammed after the federal executive council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential Villa. Recall that Oshiomhole had threatened to expel Ngige from the party and cabinet if he fails to inaugurate the board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). When asked on his reaction to the rift, Mohammed said what happened between the minister and chairman will be resolved . Explaining further he said two weeks ago, the government launched a campaign against fake news, saying it’s one of the most dangerous phenomenon we have today. He stated, “We don’t know who said what and until we know and the minister confirmed this statement credited to him. It is difficult really to comment. I can assure you if there is any problem between the party chairman and any of our ministers, it will be resolved. “ On his part, minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi denied report credited to him that he disparaged the party chairman. He said, “How do you know it’s true, I saw in social media this afternoon where they said I said the chairman is a bad luck. I never said so . I have never said such a thing. They quoted me that I was attacking the chairman.” LEADERSHIP gathered that the president had waded into the matter. He met with the minister after the FEC meeting where Ngige presented his own side of the story. In the afternoon, the president met with the party chairman. Meanwhile, the minister of water resources, Suleiman Adamu has disclosed that the council considered a memo for the augmentation of the revised estimated total cost for the completion of Mangu water supply project in Plateau state. He explained that the project was started in 2012 recalling that between 2014 and 2016 there was no budgetary allocation.” He said :”This is one of the projects that we considered a medium priority after we conducted a technical audit of all abandoned and ongoing project in water resources in mid-2016. “The project has attained 85% completion thanks to the effort of the contractors who have continued to work at some point without payment .After taking so long and in view of the inflation indices, there was a need to augment the project with N122.2 million to bring the project cost from N855.49 million to N977.7million with an additional completion period of six months. During his briefing, the minister of Transportation said his ministry presented two memos, one of which was medical and laboratory equipment for NPA for a total sum of N103.717, 845m. He added, “The next one is we awarded a contract to a consultant to help in the implementation of the international organisations for the ISO 9000 and the council approved it for us. Total sum of N238,576m.