‎A group under the aegis of concerned CSOS Alliance for Democracy and Development, has hailed the Supreme Court verdict which cleared the Senate President, of non declaration of assets by the federal government. It also berated the federal government, saying it has not offered ‎ effective leadership for the three years it has been in place. The CSOS which has an alliance of over 20 civil society organisations in a statement issued by the National President, Ishaku Mohammed Abubakar, said Saraki’s triumph shouldn’t be very surprising to the discerning. According to him, the judiciary remained the beacon of democracy and the last best hope for Nigerians, saying,“the business of governance for three years now has been sacrificed on the altar of sinister politicking.” Abubakar said, “With the happenings going on in the country especially with the rising insecurity, we would have expected the executive to step up the gas and offer presidential leadership. Alas, that is not Nigeria’s current reality. The Federal Government and its political actors have been on a campaign to smear anyone they perceive as a threat, and they have become a coatrack for jingoistic and hostile fly-by comments that disunite the country instead of healing the divides. The CSOs recalled that in June 2017, the Danladi Umar-led Code of Conduct Tribunal terminated the trial that was brought against the Senate President, basing its decision on the grounds that the prosecution, with the four witnesses and 49 exhibits tendered, failed to show any credible evidence colligating Bukola Saraki to the eighteen counts preferred against him. However, in December 2017, it said the Federal Government filed an appeal against the decision of the CCT, alleging that “and with clear interference from the Federal Government, three out of the dismissed 18 counts were restored and the Senate President was ordered to return to the CCT to defend the three charges.” “We would be very insincere with ourselves if we posit that we don’t know the folks that are responsible for Saraki’s current travails”, Abubakar stated. “Ever since he took the mantle of leadership at the legislature, there has been a committed attempt by the Executive Arm of the Federal Government to bring him down. These usurpers and enemies of democracy for the past three years have been on a fest of buttressing half-truths and whole lies just to impugn his personality. “The former governor of Kwara State is an astute statesman whose moral compass consistently points to the direction of truth. The charges against him by the Federal Government are trumped-up charges to divert the attention of the citizens away from the important issues. “The business of governance for three years now has been sacrificed on the altar of sinister politicking. Isn’t it clear to the mischief-makers that Saraki is making tremendous headway in the many legal travails he is facing and it’s about time they desist? With the array of mines strewn in his path, the Senate he leads has done in two years what it took past Senates four years to achieve. “The Bukola Saraki that we know is forever committed to the Nigerian project because he knows fully well that the old folklore that ‘all bullies are cowards’ remains true up until this day and the Federal Government should note that those who fix things for a morally indefensible and politically decadent order will succeed only for a transient moment. 2019 is getting closer and our PVC’s are always in our pockets!”