The Senate president, Dr Bukola Saraki, was let off the hook yesterday when the Supreme Court dismissed the 18 criminal charges of alleged false assets declaration brought against him by the federal government since September 2015. Justice Centus Nweze of the apex court in the judgement set aside the decision of the Court of Appeal which ordered Saraki to defend himself on three out of the 18 charges and affirmed the decision of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) which had earlier upheld the no-case submission of Saraki’s counsel, Chief Kanu Agabi, SAN. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that the CCT had, in its judgement, discharged Saraki of all 18 charges on grounds that the prosecution failed to prove its allegations against him beyond all reasonable doubt. Also, the appeal court, in its judgement, had discharged Saraki of 15 of the 18 charges and ordered him to open his defence on the three remaining charges, saying that a prima facie case had been established against him on counts 4,5 and 6. However, the Supreme Court, in its judgement on Saraki’s appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal, held that the prosecution failed to call material witnesses as required by law to support its case against the Senate president. The apex court held that all those who had facts on the allegations against Saraki were not called to testified in the matter. Besides, the Supreme Court also held that those who tendered documentary evidence against Saraki during the trial were not makers of the documents and hence their evidence on the documents were hearsay and lacked probative value. The Supreme Court held that the Court of Appeal made a caricature in its judgement when it found, as a fact, that the entire evidence adduced by the prosecution was hearsay and manifestly unreliable, yet it still went ahead to agree that a prima facie case was established against Saraki in three out of the 18 charges. Justice Nweze held that there was no basis for the Court of Appeal to have asked Saraki to defend himself on the three charges having found out that the entire evidence of the prosecution was a product of hearsay, adding that the action of the Court of Appeal amounted to forensic somersault and capable of undermining jurisprudence. “This court will not lend its jurisdiction to such a charade and caricature of justice. It carries grave error in holding that a prima facie case has been established against the appellant. The prosecution is duty bound by law to call all key witnesses to be able to establish a prima facie case against anybody,” the court held. In all, the five-man panel of justices of the apex court, in the unanimous judgement, agreed that the failure of the federal government to call vital witnesses in the trial of Saraki was fatal and rendered the trial nugatory. Consequently, the court dismissed the entire 18 charges brought against Saraki and discharged and acquitted him accordingly. It would be recalled that the Code of Conduct Tribunal presided over by Mallam Danladi Yakubu Umar had earlier discharged and acquitted Saraki from the charges against him on the ground that the charges were predicated on hearsay evidence and that none of the four witnesses called by the federal government linked Saraki with the allegations. Saraki Hails S’Court Verdict, Says Trial Politically Motivated Senate President Bukola Saraki yesterday thanked the judiciary and indeed the Supreme Court for relieving him of the long and tortuous but needless trial on charges of false declaration of asset. Saraki said the Supreme Court judgement had reiterated his confidence in the judicial process and the ability of the Judiciary to do justice to all manner of men and in all circumstances. In a statement personally signed by him after the judgement, Saraki expressed gratitude to all Nigerians who had supported him since the case commenced three years ago. “At the end of a tortuous journey of 1018 Days, counting from September 22, 2015, when the case began at the Tribunal, I am happy that I have been vindicated. “The Supreme Court has affirmed that there is no evidence of false declaration of assets. The court also observed that certain agents took over the responsibility of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) in this trial, and one can infer that this was done towards a pre-determined end. “This outcome has gladdened my heart and further strengthened my belief in this country, and as well my faith in the Almighty Allah, who is the righter of all wrongs. “God has vindicated me today before the judgement of man, and I am most thankful and humbled at His grace and infinite mercies. “Through it all, I refused to be shaken, knowing, as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said, that the arch of the moral universe may be long, but it bends towards justice. I knew the day would come when justice would prevail and I would be exonerated. Saraki reaffirmed his belief in the infallibility of the judiciary and in the rule of law, adding that his ordeal was politically motivated. “As I said in my first appearance at the CCT, this is a politically motivated case. The case was trumped up in the first instance because of my emergence as the president of the Senate against the wishes of certain forces. Ordinarily, I doubt anyone would be interested in the asset declaration form I filled over 15 years ago. “What we have seen is the opposite. Instead of working together in the interest of the nation and to seek to do better for our people, we are fighting one another and using legal instruments to mount baseless accusations against one another. “Instead of exhibiting the need for unity and working day and night for that purpose, we are stoking the fire of division and rancour. “ I maintain that, above all else, my CCT trial has been a flagrant vilification of my person, and shows that some people are after their personal interests rather than the national interest.” He added that such trials as his supported the widely held notion that the federal government was using the anti-corruption war to hound its opponents. “I believe in the need to fight corruption, but I will never be party to the selective application of the law or the rhetoric of an insincere anti-corruption fight”, Saraki stated. Dogara congratulates Saraki, says verdict reinforces independence of legislature The Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has congratulated Senate President Bukola Saraki on his victory at the Supreme Court yesterday. Dogara, in a statement issued in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Turaki Hassan, said he received the news of the apex court’s verdict with joy, noting that it had reinforced confidence in the judiciary as the last hope of the people. “The judgement of the Supreme Court today has once again reinforced our confidence and belief in the nation’s judiciary as the last hope of the common man. “As democrats, this has again reaffirmed the independence of the judiciary as protected by our Constitution under the doctrine of Separation of Powers and principles of Checks and Balances. “No doubt, the Supreme Court’s judgement will help in no small way in strengthening the independence of the legislature as the first organ of government under our constitutional democracy and presidential system of government,” he said. The speaker said that the almost three-year trial had been finally put to rest and had shown that no matter the allegations, only the truth prevailed in the end. He commended the doggedness and fighting spirit exhibited by Saraki who refused to be distracted by the long trial and remained resolute and focused on his legislative duties as president of the Senate and chairman of the National Assembly. Dogara urged Saraki to see the trial as a test of his leadership capacity and to forgive all involved his and put it behind him. Supreme Court Judgement, Triumph For Justice – PDP  The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the Supreme Court judgement dismissing the asset declaration case against Senate President Bukola Saraki at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) as a triumph of justice. The party added that the judgement had further reinforced the confidence of Nigerian citizens in the courage of the institution of the judiciary as the temple of justice and the last hope of the common man, particularly under an oppressive regime. PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a release, said that “the judgement has further supported the party’s position that the Buhari Presidency’s fight against corruption is mere shadow-chasing and a clever attempt at blackmailing the opposition as well as anyone who holds a divergent voice against this administration.” The party added that the “judgement should serve as a spur for all judicial officers at all levels to be bold in upholding the dispensation of justice in all cases without fear, let or politically induced hindrances.” Kwara Women, Youths In Wild Jubilation As Emir, Gov, APC, Others Hail Judgement By Hundreds of supporters of Senate President Bukola Saraki trooped out yesterday in wild jubilation after the Supreme Court cleared him of the allegations of false assert declaration brought against him. This is even as the Ilorin Emirate Community under the leadership of the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari, offered special prayers of gratitude to God over the verdict. The special prayers which was led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Sheik Muhammad Bashir, was offered immediately after yesterday’s jummat service at the Ilorin Central Mosque. Women and youths who are followers of the Senate president had besieged the Emir’s palace soon after news of the apex court verdict filtered into town to celebrate the victory with the monarch. Speaking with newsmen, a leader of the youth groups, Alhaji Abdulfatai Solagberu, said the youths were excited and overwhelmed by the victory which had finally absolved Saraki of any wrongdoing regarding the declaration of his assets. He noted that the youths were especially happy due to the passion the Senate President had for their growth and development. He recalled how Saraki had consistently empowered many youths and gave jobs both at federal and state levels to many of them. Also speaking, the leader of Kwara market women, Alhaja Nike Lambe, praised the Emir and men of goodwill who stood with Saraki all through his ordeal. She assured the Senate president of the continued support of Kwara women, noting that Saraki had empowered many women through his numerous empowerment schemes since his election as Kwara State governor in 2003. In his response, the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari hailed the Supreme Court’s verdict. He also thanked the jubilant crowd for their show of love and affection for Saraki who he described as “my beloved son”. The monarch said he was proud of Saraki’s achievements as governor and Senate President. He prayed Allah to elevate him in his political career and grant him sound health and long life. In the same vein, Kwara state governor, Alh Abdulfatah Ahmed also hailed the Supreme Court verdict. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, described the apex court as a bastion of democracy in the country. “What the judgement has done is to re-energize the common man’s hope and belief in the judiciary. It is the only hope for a better and free Nigeria”, the governor said. He recalled that while the trial lasted, Saraki was unperturbed, unshaken and remained committed to providing purposeful leadership as the chairman of the National Assembly, even as he praised the senator for weathering the storm of the legal battle for the last three years. The governor congratulated the Senate president for the victory and urged him to continue to work hard towards strengthening the country’s legal and democratic processes In his reaction, the speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly, Dr Ali Ahmad, asked Saraki’s persecutors to await God’s judgement. He said, “Because he is innocent, the trial court, Court of Appeal and now the Supreme Court have discharged and acquitted him. Saraki is probably the first politician in the world that is vilified the most by his own political party. We were led to believe that Saraki was going through a fair, run-of-the-mill trial superintended by people with integrity. It was a hoax. Valuable man-hours and stupendous amount of public funds were wasted on what the Supreme Court referred to as a “forensic somersault”. “Being an administration that constantly employs the criminal justice system to fight political battles, we will not be naïve to believe that the success at the Supreme Court will end all persecution, blackmail and intimidation of the Senate President by people who desperately want only one thing: to exterminate his political career for no just cause. Also, the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Kwara State, in a press statement by its publicity secretary, Alhaji Sulyman Buhari, described the judgement as a victory for democracy and a landmark verdict on the integrity of the Senate president. “Kwara APC wishes to declare that the landmark judgement of the Supreme Court is consistent with the belief and expectation of the Kwara State chapter of our party. “Finally, as a party, we wish to reiterate our unconditional loyalty to the leadership of the Senate President.”