The governing All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday disowned a splinter group within its fold, Reformed All Progressives Congress (A-APC), saying there is no faction in the party. Reacting to the breakaway and subsequent formation of what is now known as the R-APC, the APC said that it will be investigating the group’s true status in the party. The party noted that the original plan was for the convention to be scuttled but having failed in the attempt, the R-APC members resorted to creating confusion by Wednesday’s declaration. In a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, APC stressed that the party is not divided as widely reported. The statement noted: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) wishes to affirm that there is no faction in our Party and declares the action by these individuals as mischievous and ill-advised. Having failed to scuttle the National Convention as was their original plan, they now resort to this subterfuge as a way of achieving the pre-determined end of causing confusion. “As a matter of fact, we doubt that these individuals parading as leaders of the so called faction are actual members of our Party. We are currently investigating their true membership status within the Party. “While we shall continue to monitor developments in this respect; we will not hesitate to take lawful actions to defend the unity of our Party and protect the sanctity of its identity. We are currently reviewing the action of this so-called faction in order to determine if any aspect of the Party’s constitution has been breached with the connivance of any of our members. “For those members who have genuine grievances, we want to assure them of the commitment of the new leadership of the party to address those grievances as quickly as possible in a manner that ensures that justice is done to all”. The R-APC that was officially announced on Wednesday said it will work with other compatible political parties and groups to offer Nigerians what it described as good governance in 2019. The breakaway faction comprising most of the leading members of the defunct new Peoples Democratic Party’s (nPDP), Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) within the party has a former ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, Alhaji Buba Galadima, as its head. In a press conference attended by the leader of nPDP bloc in the APC, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, Galadima noted that the R-APC remains the authentic party and does not need to approach the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for registration. Noting that anyone who feels uncomfortable with the arrangement can go to the court, he described the local and state congresses as well as the national convention of the APC as undemocratic, just as he declared that the APC government is a monumental disaster. Only Justice, Equity Can Silence Dissenting Voices In APC- Dogara Meanwhile, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, said yesterday that it is only by enthroning justice and equity that the ruling APC will be able to silence voices of dissent and opposition. He spoke at a meeting between APC members of the House and members of the newly elected national working committee of the party led by the chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole, at the National Assembly. The Speaker noted that although there is no human endeavor that is perfect, APC lawmakers only expect justice, which is indivisible and universal. He said, “In every family, whether it is a nuclear, extended or an organisation, there is bound to be problemds and that is because we humans that are running those institutions are not perfect ourselves. So, we don’t expect perfection from any quarters. “Our only expectation is the issue of justice and justice is indivisible. What is justice to the executive should be justice to the legislature and it should be justice to the judiciary. “What is justice to the President and the Vice President should be justice to the Governor and it has to be justice for the members of the National Assembly, because you can’t divide justice. Once you begin to divide justice you don’t have justice. “And once we are able to get these things in their proper perspectives, to some extent, we will be able to silence the voices of dissent within the party. That we have problems is perfectly okay but we mustn’t allow our problems to define us. Rather, we should define our problems as a party.” Hon Dogara expressed optimism about the ability and capacity of the new APC chairman, Oshiomhole, to tackle the challenges confronting the party saying, “I know that you came well prepared. “We can only wish you well and pray for God’s additional wisdom because human wisdom won’t be enough. As you navigate very treacherous terrain we pray God’s wisdom for you.” For his part, Comrade Oshiomhole told the lawmakers that everybody matters in APC because all party members voluntarily moved from various political platforms, and dissolved those platforms in order to give birth to the APC. He said that the idea of delivering the greater good for the greater number of Nigerian citizens is what binds the APC together and “defines us in spite of the teething problems we were bound to experience that every new organisation goes through”.