There appear to be a momentary respite in the nation’s university sector as the three main non-teaching staff unions in the university sector have shelved their proposed strike action which should have commenced today. The union had recently said it would commence a nationwide strike today, barely three months after it suspended its strike action, after what they described as failure of government to honour agreement reached with the unions The unions included non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU), the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), and National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) LEADERSHIP gathered that the unions under the Joint Action Committee (JAC) met yesterday and resolved to momentarily shelve the strike action and seek other options. Speaking to our reporter over the phone, NAAT president, Comrade Sani Suleiman said the unions have agreed to meet with the minister of education next week, after which a decision will be taken, pending the outcome of the meeting. “We have resolved that strike should be the last option for now. I can confirm to you that we are not going on strike tomorrow (today). Bu we have a mandate from our NEC to seek other options, depending on the outcome of our meeting with the minster of education.” LEADERSHIP recalled that the unions had in December, 2017, embarked on an indefinite strike action to press for the implementation of the 12 demands including the 2009, 2012 and 2017 agreements signed between the unions and the Federal Government. It would be recalled that as at the time the unions suspended their strike in March, the federal government said it will look for N8 billion within five weeks to pay the striking workers. The amount emanated from the N23 billion for Earned Allowance given to university based unions. The unions had complained that the sum of N23 billion was released by the federal government in September 2017, but was skewed in favour of the Academic Staff Unions of Universities, thereby leaving 11 per cent of the said sum to the non-teaching unions/ staff.