Stakeholders in Bauchi state, under the auspices of Bauchi State Elders and Stakeholders has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene in the wrangling between the Governor of Bauchi state, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara. The stakeholders in a statement jointly signed by the elders, including former governor of the state, Dr. Isa Yuguda and 32 others, noted that their efforts to resolve the crisis yielded some fruits as it reduced the problem to the barest minimum. “We are proud to note that the response of both parties to our appeal for peace and reconciliation had been warmly acknowledged. We were able to persuade the Hon. Speaker to agree to pay a courtesy call on His Excellency the Governor when he was to go to Bauchi for the commissioning of his constituency projects in November, 2017. Subsequently, the Governor reciprocated the Hon. Speaker’s conciliatory gesture by honouring the invitation to attend the Hon. Speaker’s 50th Birthday anniversary in Abuja. We also managed to reduce to the barest minimum the incessant media war between the two opposing groups,” the statement reads. The statement further noted that, if the ongoing political disharmony is not addressed, it may affect fortune of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state during the forthcoming general election. While expressing deep solidarity with the Speaker, the stakeholders noted that Bauchi state had benefited in no small measure from Dogara’s leadership. “We wish to, on behalf of the entire good people of Bauchi State, passionately appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to kindly intervene to bring about a quick solution to this political impasses posing a threat to our nascent democracy both at the national level and in Bauchi State,” the statement reads. The statement reads further : “We, the under listed elders and stakeholders of Bauchi State, after due consultation, hereby wish to express our firm solidarity with our worthy son and political leader the Rt. Hon. Dogara Yakubu, Speaker House of Representatives who has been providing quality leadership and effective representation at the national level. For about eleven months we sat with His Excellency the Governor and the Hon. Speaker leading those members of the National Assembly on more than six different occasions, shuttling between Bauchi and Abuja at our own expense, trying to reconcile the warring parties. We are happy to state that Bauchi State has benefitted from a reasonable number of constituency projects initiated by some of the members of the House of Representatives from Bauchi State with the co-operation of the Governor.