As the world commemorates World Hepatitis Day today, LEADERSHIP checks reveal that no fewer than 40 million Nigerians may be infected with hepatitis. Hepatitis, which is an inflammation of the liver tissue, is caused by a virus known as viral hepatitis. It may also be caused by drugs or alcohol use, and the most common forms are Hepatitis A, B, and C. The minister of health, Prof Isaac Adewole, had said that viral hepatitis was the seventh leading cause of deaths globally, adding that the disease was a silent killer and responsible for about 1.44 million deaths annually. He explained that without appropriate diagnosis and treatment, around one-third of those chronically infected with viral hepatitis would die as a result of serious liver diseases, including cirrhosis, liver cell cancer and liver failure. The minister identified the adequate treatment of Hepatitis B and C as a way out in preventing the development of major life- threatening chronic liver diseases like cirrhosis and liver cancer. According to him, hepatitis could cause chronic liver diseases, liver cancer and death without manifesting any weighty symptoms. Experts have, however, blamed the prevalence of the disease on poor awareness among health care providers and the general public. LEADERSHIP Weekend findings also revealed that Hepatitis A and E are transmitted through contaminated food and water, with symptoms such as fever, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and yellow eyes. These symptoms, it was gathered, go on their own and do not stay in the body to cause further damage. Hepatitis B, C and D, on the other hand, stay longer than six months in the body and grow into chronic forms. The regional director of the World Health Organisation (WHO), African Region, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, in her 2018 World Hepatitis Day message, disclosed that, worldwide, 323 million people are infected with Hepatitis B or C virus, a burden 10 times larger than the HIV epidemic. According to her, over 1.4 million people die annually from liver diseases caused by untreated infection, including two out of every three liver cancer deaths. She said that in Africa, Hepatitis B and C is a silent epidemic affecting over 70 million people, and that among infected persons, nine out of every 10 have never been tested because of lack of awareness and poor access to testing and treatment. Dr Moeti, however, noted that cost effective medicines are available to control Hepatitis B infection and prevent liver diseases. According to her, the Hepatitis B vaccine given at birth together with infant vaccination prevents over 95 percent of new infections that lead to liver cancer in later life, while for Hepatitis C, newly available treatment can cure the infection in almost all patients within 12 weeks. She, therefore, urged Nigeria and other African nations to develop national strategic plans to serve as roadmaps for the elimination of viral hepatitis. “I urge countries to invest in the hepatitis response by scaling up domestic funding, and providing testing and treatment facilities, leveraging on the existing health infrastructure for HIV and other infectious disease,” said Dr Moeti. Observers have blamed manpower deficit for the rising incidence of the disease in the country, lamenting that with less 100 hepathologists in the country, it is difficult for those diagnosed of hepatitis to see a physician as HBV patients  queue for three months before seeing a hepathologist. Meanwhile, In an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend, the second vice president, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Dr Ofem Enang, said that though there are very few hepathologists and gastroenterologists in the country, hepatitis prevalence is not so much tied to that fact. He rather identified lack of awareness as the major  factor and  advocated preventive care which, according to him, is a better approach. “When you align yourself completely  to gastroenterologists or hepathologists, as the case may be, you are  dealing in the realm of treatment alone, but it goes beyond that, because this is about medical specialists and we have very few of them in the country. But the truth about it is that we need preventive care. The prevalence of hepatitis itself is on the rise because of ignorance on the part of people. “First, there are several types of hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D and E. But for the purposes of this, the one that calls to mind easily and that has extensive impact on public health is usually Hepatitis B and C as it were. Both of them have some relationship because they are usually transmitted through blood and other body fluids,” said Dr Enang. According to him, “Prior report suggested a prevalence of about 10-15 per cent risk in the Nigerian population, and some investigators have found high Hepatitis B prevalence among surgeons; as high as 26 per cent. These are from studies done in Nigeria. Again, among voluntary blood donors, it is about 23 per cent; then for infants, it is about 16 per cent. “With the above statistics, which is about 20 percent, it means that one in five persons would have hepatitis.” LEADERSHIP Weekend reports that with an estimation population of 198 million people, nearly 40 million Nigerians may be afflicted with the disease. However, the magnitude of this threat to the well-being of a huge percentage of the population is not attracting the kind of attention it should due to lack of awareness, a point underscored by Dr Enang. “If you look at the very high prevalence we are having, a lot of them come down to ignorance, but sometimes, too, practices; how do we use sharp objects?  When there is contact with blood, then there is the need for blood screening,” he added. The NMA vice president, therefore, advocated awareness campaigns in order to encourage people to seek adequate medical attention for common symptoms. He stated that hepatitis treatment is very expensive, adding that there is no guarantee that a person will be wholly fit after the treatment as the patient may still come down with complications which are long lasting. The warning signs, according to him, are jaundice, constant fever, fatigue, abdominal pain, and lack of appetite, among others. “When you have all of these things staying for a long period of time, and you take your usual treatment but it is not going, at that point you should see a doctor,” he said. Dr Enang also advocated training for health professionals at the primary healthcare level so that they can detect people who have such symptoms and refer them to the proper treatment channel. This, he said, would reduce the burden on the tertiary health facilities as people will not go there directly when they already have complications. WHO has also urged health care workers, non-governmental organisations, civil society groups and people living with viral hepatitis to play a vital role in raising awareness and promoting testing and treatment for Hepatitis B and C. It also called on researchers to work on simplifying testing and treatment procedures, find a cure for Hepatitis B infection and a vaccine for Hepatitis C.