For the fifth time in about seven months, the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) has again been deadlocked as members who gathered at the main auditorium of the Federal Ministry dispersed in apparent anger and frustration. The FAAC meeting was reconvened yesterday to approve revenue accrued to the federation in the month of May for sharing in June after the Committee failed to approve remittances to the federal treasury for the second time in about two weeks. The reason, our correspondent gathered, is directly connected with the alleged under remittance of revenue by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). State commissioners, representatives of government agencies were seen fuming and dropping their accreditation tags. They however, refused to talk to Journalists on what transpired at the meeting. When asked what was responsible for the stalemate for the second time, chairman of the Commissioners Forum, Mahmood Yunusa declined to comment on the development. Many state governments are yet to pay June salaries to their civil servants and meet other obligations because the FAAC has not been able to meet and successfully agree on the figures with NNPC. If the FAAC is not held again this week, the implication is that most will not be able to meet to financial obligations as most of them depend on federal allocation for revenue to run their respective states. The Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, who was supposed to chair the Committee meeting, failed to join the members despite the fact that she was inside her office. Accountant General of the Federation, Mr Ahmed Idris who was also seen in the ministry also left before the Commissioners and other representatives began to leave one after the other. Journalists were simply told to come back again on Thursday (tomorrow) when the meeting is expected to be reconvened. Despite recommendations by public commentators for devolution of powers and resource control to entrench true federalism, the Nigerian government has failed to do what many believe will be an end to all the states depending on the central government for survival.