The Katsina State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) confirmed yesterday that a heavy rainfall in Jibia local government area of Katsina State has claimed about 48 lives and destroyed no fewer than 500 houses. The executive secretary of the agency, Dr Aminu Garba Waziri, told journalists that some of the deceased had already been buried according to Islamic rites, while arrangements are being made for the burial of  additional 17 corpses. The state governor, Aminu Bello Masari, who visited the affected communities to ascertain the extent of the tragic incident, was in shock and tears while sympathising with the victims of the tragic incident. The remains of some victims, Waziri further disclosed, were recovered in a river in neighbouring Niger Republic, adding that the search and rescue team was deployed to the area. Investigations revealed that the heavy down pour, which started at about 1:30am and continued till the early hours of yesterday rendered about 2000 people homeless, leaving scores with various degrees of injuries. It was also gathered that the disaster claimed over 200 domestic animals and destroyed farmlands and other property yet to be estimated. LEADERSHIP gathered that some of the worst hit communities in the area include unguwar Kwa-Kwa, Unguwar Mai Kwari, Tudun Takari and Dan Yudu. PMB Expresses Sadness Over Katsina Disaster President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness and concern about the unprecedented devastation caused by floods in Katsina state and other parts of the country justa as he pledged federal government’s support for the victims of the disaster. The President in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu said that he had been deeply saddened to observe the devastation and terrible loss of lives caused by the floods in Katsina state and other parts of the federation and has, accordingly directed the National Emergency Management Agency, (NEMA) to do everything that will bring succor to the victims wherever they are. “As rescue and prevention efforts continue,” the President said, “let me express the sincere condolences of my family, the government and people of Nigeria to all the victims of the destruction by the floods. “Let me assure that we stand ready to provide, within available resources, every assistance that is needed to bring comfort to those in distress”, he added.