Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose has come under severe attacks over his statement last Thursday that he won’t receive President Muhammadu Buhari, when he visits Ekiti State for the grand finale rally of the All Progressives Congress, APC, today . Many analysts in the state, who pleaded anonymity told LEADERSHIP that it was the height of political rascality for the Ekiti State governor to contemplate not receiving the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria when he visits the state tomorrow. Fayose had said at the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, rally last Thursday, “I got a letter on Wednesday that that I should come and welcome the President, but I said I am not receiving the President because he has not done anything for Ekiti.” Reacting to Fayose’s diatribe, a legal luminary, Barr Richard Akinnola ll, said, “Fayose is wrong, very wrong, to say that he won’t receive President Buhari when the President visits Ekiti State tomorrow to campaign for Dr. Kayode Fayemi. “Protocol demands that you welcome the President, irrespective of your misgivings against the President, or whether you belong in the same party with him or not. “The PDP hierarchy should call him to order.This is not a private matter. Otherwise, he should as well reject the state’s monthly federal allocation because it’s coming from Abuja.” Recall that in 2014, when former President Goodluck Jonathan was in Ekiti State to campaign for Fayose ahead of the 2014 governorship election,he was received by Dr Fayemi, who was then the incumbent governor of Ekiti State. But a retired Department of State Security personnel, who pleaded anonymity, told LEADERSHIP on phone that it is a matter of courtesy for a state governor to receive the visiting President, unless the President is on a state visit, when it is mandatory. When his attention was called to a similar visit by Jonathan in 2014 and how he was received by the then sitting governor, he said, “Fayemi is a gentleman, Fayose is not. That is where the difference lies. “If the President is on a state visit, it becomes mandatory for the state governor to receive him. “Besides, there have been precedents in the past. Former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, severally did not receive former President Olusegun Onabanjo during many of his visits to Lagos while in office. Former governor of of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi also did not receive Jonathan during the height of their frosty relationship whenever the latter visits Rivers State.”