One of the governorship aspirants of All Progressives Congress (APC) from Ile Ife in State of Osun Elder (Dr) Samuel Ibiyemi has announced his withdrawal from the governorship race of the party to pave way for the victory of Alhaji Gboyega  Oyetola during the primary election slated for July 19, 2018. Dr Ibiyemi announced at a press conference in Abuja on Friday that the similarity in programmes of the two aspirants made him to step down for Alhaji Oyetola, who is the current Chief of Staff to the Governor State of Osun, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. According to him, he agreed to step down after the examination of his programme by leaders of APC in Osun East Senatorial District, leader of his campaign team led by the former Deputy Governor, State of Osun Sooko Adeleke Adewoyin and  campaign team of Alhaji Oyetola led by a member of the House of Representatives Hon Famurewa Ajibola. “ There is no need to continue with the governorship  race with the presence of Alhaji Oyetola  that we share the same vision for the State of Osun  containing similarity in programmes, projects and attributes as  aspirants. It is better for me to support Alhaji Oyetola in sustaining transformation  of the state’s economy started by Governor Rauf Aregbesola and make APC stronger,” he said. Ibiyemi  described  Alhaji Oyetola’s experience as a member of Gov Aregbesola’s cabinet as the best option for APC to win the gubernatorial election on September 22, 2018. He  gave the assurance  to mobilize all  his delegates and supporters within the party across the state and particularly from Ife Federal Constitutency to vote for Alhaji Oyetola during the primary election. “Oyetola’s ideology and strategies are similar to mine but his experience as the Chief of Staff to Gov Aregbesola placed him in best position among all aspirants to sustain and build on the legacies of Aregbesola particularly on infrastructures, agriculture, youths empowerment and industrial revolution,” he said. Ibiyemi assured: “I have promised to offload details of my programme and goodwill to support Oyetola in  ensuring success of Oyetola during the primary election on July 19 and on September 22 governorship election. I am ready and committed to  use  my time and resources to support the victory of Oyetola in  recognition of his plans to use experts in all areas  within the party to govern State of Osun”. He urged other governorship aspirants to appreciate merit and experience of Oyetola  as the qualities needed by APC to defeat the opposition. “My fellow aspirants should follow my step by coming together to support Oyetola so as not to provide opportunity for the opposition led by the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP). This contest should not be a do or die affair. The unity of all aspirants  of APC  as a family is needed to ensure the victory of Oyetola. Zoning is not in the constitution of APC and should not be allowed to create disunity among party leaders and members,” he suggested. At a meeting with Dr Ibiyemi in Abuja, Alhaji Oyetola had commended Ibiyemi’s  kind gesture to step down and work for his victory during the primary despite his wealth of experience both in the military and the private sector of the economy.He described  Ibiyemi as a  valuable asset of APC and the state of Osun needed in formation of his team. “ The decision of Ibiyemi to step down is a great sacrifice which  should be emulated by other aspirants to put enemies of APC to shame,”he said. During his declaration to contest recently, the state Chairman of APC, Prince Gboyega Famodun had described  Ibiyemi’s wealth  of experience in Nigerian Airforce and two decades exposure globally as international business journalist across several countries as an asset for APC, State of Osun and Nigeria.