A House of Representative aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Katsina State, Hon. Aminu Abashe on Sunday lost his wife and daughter to armed bandits along the Kaduna-Abuja highway. Abashe was also a victim of the unfortunate attack but currently receiving treatment at the Trauma Centre at the National Hospital, Abuja. A former commissioner of Education in Katsina State, Prof. Halima Idris who has been buried in Kaduna yesterday according to Islamic rites and an army officer travelling with his orderly and daughter were also victims. According to report the orderly escaped with gunshot but they killed the army officer and his daughter on the spot and other passengers. They were returning from Kaduna to Abuja in different vehicles, when they ran into the bandits who mounted a roadblock, stopped motorists and started shooting sporadically. According to eyewitnesses report the attack occurred around 6:00 pm near Gidan Busa village, located between Jere and Kateri communities, along the expressway. At least four people were killed and some others abducted on Sunday by armed kidnappers along the Kaduna-Abuja highway. The Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, Austin Iwar, confirmed the attack saying that the force is on the trail of the bandits. Kaduna Police command in a statement through its Public Relations Officer, DSP Aliyu Mukhtar confirmed that four persons were killed in the attack, while five others were injured. The statement reads in part: “The Kaduna State Police Command wishes to inform the public that on 22/07/2018 at about 06:30pm, a distress call was received that a group of unidentified armed men blocked Kaduna–Abuja express road by Gidan Busa Village and opened fire indiscriminately at any vehicle on sight. “In swift response, teams of Policemen stormed the scene where the bandits were dislodged but sadly they had already killed four commuters and injured five others in their dastardly act Normalcy has been restored on the road with commuters moving safely without molestation. “The Police Command use this medium to reassure the public that we are committed even more than before to protect life and property of Nigerians, irrespective of time, venue and circumstance. “In this regard, we call on the general public to volunteer information to security agencies to assist us in ridding our communities of such violent miscreants who constitute threat to our peaceful coexistence.”