A 20-year-old female cultist, Maryam Abiola, stunned the Lagos State Police Command yesterday when she confessed that she received 10,000 each time the gang killed a victim, and that she had killed four persons. The suspect, from Abeokuta, Ogun State, who is a member of Eiye Confraternity, said her role was to keep arms for the cult group’s members whenever they are going for an operation. Abiola said she was introduced to the gang by one Sadiq, a leader of their group, who usually brought the pictures of the victims they were to eliminate. Abiola said, “I was initiated to Eye Confraternity through a brother called Sadiq. I met him at Ilasamaja immediately I came to Lagos. I was looking for job when I met him and he told me to join the group where I will be making a living without stress.” According to her, Sadiq was a leader of Eiye Confraternity in llasamaja area who trained her on how to use guns to kill people. She further revealed that they normally disguised themselves while going for operations, with women wearing hijabs and men dressing in ‘jalabias’ form to avoid suspicion. She added that she was paid N10,000 while the men got N20,000 each after every operation. The Lagos State commissioner of police, CP Edgal Imohimi, who parading the suspect, disclosed that she was nabbed demanding N600,000 ransom yesterday morning by the Divisional Police Officer, Ilasamaja Police Station. According to CP Edgal,  Abiola confessed to have personally killed four people and that she was under oath. He said that on July 13, based on a credible source that rival cult groups were fighting in Alafia area of Mushin, detectives from Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) swiftly mobilised to the scene and arrested one Sadiq Oyewunmi and Ihioma Emeka. “They were subsequently searched during which two live cartridges and two locally made revolver pistols with ammunition were recovered from them. “During investigation, the suspects confessed to being members of a secret cult group known as Eiye Confraternity. Oyewunmi actually confessed that during their cult activities, his brother, named Waheed Oyewunmi, was shot dead by the rival cult group led by Emeka Ihioma whom, he alleged, pulled the trigger of the gun that killed his brother.”