Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has dismissed reports of imminent collapse of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over recent defections of some legislators, insisting that the party will come out of the situation stronger. In a statement issued in Lokoja by his director-general, Media and Publicity, Kingsley Fanwo, Governor Bello said that rather than becoming upset, the recent happenings in the APC would make the party stronger and better. Bello stated: “The recent defection of some of our members in the National Assembly was unfortunate but it has also afforded our great party the opportunity to separate those with the genuine spirit of change from those who were in the party for personal gains and self aggrandizement. “Such political abrasions are not unexpected in the run up to the 2019 general election, as politicians scramble for platforms to realise their ambitions. We won’t accept the defections are meaningless just as we won’t also agree that they are capable of breaking our party. It is heartwarming that some of the legislators are already back in the fold, as more will retrace their steps. “It is encouraging that the All Progressives Congress has held on to its majority status in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. I urge our party faithful across the country to work with the disciplined and hardworking leadership of the party to continue to effect the change we promised Nigerians”. Bello further noted that the “scramble for the soul of the Nigerian Parliament” is not unconnected with the “grand plan to use the parliament to stifle the fight against corruption as well as stop the President’s pro-people policies ahead of the 2019 elections”, even as he maintained that the enemies of Nigeria will fail. The governor who declared President Muhammadu Buhari remains the “hope of Nigeria towards the enthronement of good governance and the fight against corruption, the number one enemy of Nigeria” expressed “profound confidence in the chances of President Muhammadu Buhari retaining his seat in the Villa till 2023”. He said, “What is happening now is not unexpected. 2019 is the last chance the corrupt cabal has to return to power and continue to steal our common patrimony. They know that laying corruption to rest for another four years will be dangerous to those who steal the commonwealth of the nation. They have forgotten that the 2019 poll is not just between them and President Buhari but also between them and the poor Nigerians who have benefited from the pro-masses policies of the present administration. “2019 is in the hands of God and I have faith in the fact that God will never return Nigeria to those who destroyed it in the past. President Muhammadu Buhari has done well in the areas of economy, security and social welfare. Nigerians will surely re-elect him irrespective of the antics of those who want to reverse our progress”.