The Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Ekanem Oyo-Ita has revealed that the verification of Federal Government Employees on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) would commence on Monday July 16, 2018. The head of service revealed this while briefing journalist, Friday at the federal secretariat in Abuja. She stated that a total of 486 Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) with over 300,000 employees have enrolled on IPPIS platform. The number one civil servant said that the verification was part of the implementation of the eight priority areas of the 2017 to 2020 Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP). “On Dec. 8, 2017, the Federal Government inaugurated the FCSSIP which with the aim to reposition the federal civil service for efficiency and enhanced service delivery to Nigerians in line with the current administration’s change agenda. The verification exercise that begins next week, was to authenticate the documents of individual employees of the federal government and that the procedure would entail everyone presenting themselves and documents for screening”. “In fulfilment of one of the cardinal principles of the introduction of the IPPIS programme which is blocking loopholes and discouraging corruption in the administration of personnel records. It is important that the Human Resource information on the IPPIS portal be cleaned up with a view to having credible data for both payroll and personnel administration and analysis. At the end of the verification exercise, discrepancies will be resolved to ensure that what is finally uploaded unto the IPPIS platform has high level of data integrity,’’ she said. She urged all concerned MDAS to provide enabling environment for verifiers by providing enabling environment for the successful conduct of the exercise. Further explaining that the employees who do not comply with the verification would have their data deleted from the federal government employee database. The verification which is scheduled to run for two weeks will start with the Federal Ministry of Information, Health, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Ministry of Defence (MOD) from July 16 to 20 among others. While from July 23 to 27 the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation, Accountant General of the Federation, State House, Federal Ministry of Environment, Power Works and Housing and others. The verification would come to an end on August 3, with the Federal Technical College Orozo on July 23, 2018. 