Members of the House of Representatives from Anambra State, has alleged that the travails of the former national publicity secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olisa Metuh, is targeted at keeping him away from politics. The members, who visited Metuh in his home in Abuja, alerted that the spate of sponsored articles against him since his recuperation has confirmed that the government and the APC are not comfortable with him in circulation ahead of elections. The lawmakers, led by Deputy Minority Leader of the House, Hon. Chukwuka Onyema, maintained that the APC and the Federal Government are still “jittery and scared of the acclaimed strategic and tactical prowess” of the former PDP spokesperson, who they noted, gave the government and APC sleepless nights with his issue-based statements as well as his doggedness in sustaining the voice of opposition at the most critical time. The House of Representatives members, who included Hon. Chris Azubogu, Hon. Obinna Chidoka, Hon. Emeka Anohu and Hon. Eucharia Azodo, claimed that APC sponsored hack writers had exposed their desperation against Metuh when they attacked him in the media after his visit to Senator Ike Ekweremadu over the police invasion of his home last Tuesday. Hon. Chris Azubogu said “Nigerians can now see the main reason for Chief Metuh’s travails. Somebody do not want him to be in circulation because they know his political prowess. That is why they have gone into frenzy just because Chief Metuh visited Senator Ekweremadu, even on crutches. “Every Nigerian is aware of the situation of Chief Metuh’s matter, where there has been strong opposition to his travelling for medical treatment over his spinal cord ailment, whereas there has not been such opposition to other accused persons travelling to visit their families or even for social and religious tourisms. “It is common knowledge amongst political circles that Chief Metuh is paying for the role he played in stabilizing the interest of the PDP, particularly, the election of principal officers in June 2015, as well as his major efforts at rallying the opposition party after the set back of the 2015 general elections. This is in addition to the private meetings he organized in Abuja, Dubai and London in late 2015 where he perfected the foundation of the return of some of our hitherto brethren, from the APC. “Nigerians can still recall the famous cry of Senator Ali Ndume, that the PDP was in coma and that Olisa Metuh was the only nurse treating it. Since then, the APC has remained afraid of what a healthy Olisa Metuh will do in organising intellectual, purposeful and effective opposition to the ruling party. “It is obvious that many in the ruling party would prefer that Chief Metuh remains personally incapacitated, completely immobilized and permanently kept out of circulation until the conduct of the 2019 elections”, Azubogu said. The members however stated that in the last two months they have had cause to rejoice since Metuh progressed from using a wheel-chair to a walker and now crutches. They nevertheless restated their call for Metuh to be allowed to have his operation in order to prevent an irreversible damage. Commenting, Metuh thanked the lawmakers for the visit adding that he was encouraged by their show of solidarity and prayers.