Pending any change of plans, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will this week, formally welcome the recent defectors into their party. As such, the PDP has scheduled to hold a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to receive the recent defectors from All Progressives Congress (APC) into their fold. A party source told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the PDP NEC, which is the second ranking party organ of the party, would be formally informed of the returnees. Thirteen Senators and 37 House of Representative members of the APC, decamped to PDP on the floor of the chambers last Tuesday. The Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, alongside some local government chairmen, defected to the PDP on Wednesday. While the Kwara State governor, Abdulfatai Ahmed, declared his dumping of the APC for the PDP, the party is also expecting the return of the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal from next week. The party source said, “this NEC meeting is to formally welcome our members, who recently returned and also to assure them that they will be given equal treatment as bondfide members of the party. They will be assured of equal privileges and rights within the party.” The anticipated NEC meeting is the second for the party in the space of two weeks. The NEC, which met last week Monday, approved a formula for accommodating decampees in order to cushion the ripples that will result from their return within the party across the states. The national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, had disclosed that a template or framework has been designed by the party on how to handle the return of members. He said, “We have provided a percentage or structure in states for governors that are returning or joining afresh,” adding that same applies to qualitative members of national and state assemblies. He however stressed that the NWC will not impose its will or desires on the state structures, adding that in states where such fusions will happen, the stakeholders will apply the template. Meanwhile, it was learnt yesterday, that the proposal to change the party’s name still remains a consideration. A PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) member, who spoke to LEADERSHIP Sunday anonymously, said the issue still remains a matter for consideration, even though he hinted that it isn’t a major concern at the moment. The BoT member, who pleaded not to be named because he wouldn’t want to “duplicate what the party has already said about it”, added, “the issue of change of name is still at the consideration stage. “By the time the committee tasked with the responsibility of looking into it finishes its work, we will take a decision,” he added.