Chairman, Board of Trustees, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and a former Inspector General of Police, Alhaji Ibrahim Coomassie is dead. Alhaji Dahiru Coomassie, a younger brother to the deceased, confirmed the death, yesterday, in Katsina. He said that Coomassie died yesterday evening after a protracted illness at Amadi Rimi Specialist Hospital, Katsina. He died at the age of 76.  Coomasie will be buried in Katsina today, Friday, after Juma’at prayers. . . . PMB, ACF Mourn President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with the family members, the government and people of Katsina State following the demise of his classmate and former Inspector-General of Police, Sardaunan Katsina, Ibrahim Ahmadu Coomassie. The president, in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu, said he received the news of the death of the chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF with shock and deep sense of loss. “Nigeria will never forget the excellent leadership the late Coomassie gave to the Nigeria police Force for the many years he served as IG.” He said his thoughts were with late Ibrahim Coomassie’s family and those mourning the demise of the late community leader and fine gentleman. “On behalf of the government and people of Nigeria, I pray to Allah to receive his soul and the family he left behind, the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Meanwhile, the apex northern socio-cultural organisation, ACF, has mourned its chairman and former Inspector-General of Police, Alhaji Ibrahim Coomassie. The ACF in a condolence statement by its spokesman, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, expressed shock and grief over the demise of the statesman. ACF said the North has lost a great elder statesman who endeared himself to all by upholding the Northern values of justice, liberty, common decency and equal opportunity for all. The statement reads:”Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) learnt with shock and grief the passing on of our chairman and elder statesman, former Inspector General of Police, Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmadu Coomassie, Sardaunan Katsina, today 19 July, 2018 in Katsina at the age of 76. Late Ibrahim Coomassie was the 9th Inspector General of Police who served between 1993 to 1999. “ Late Coomassie will be buried tomorrow in Katsina after Juma’at prayers. He was a fine officer and gentleman who left an indelible mark in the Police service. His love and promotion of Northern values which the late Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sardaunan Sokoto practiced and died for was legendary. He was an administrator per excellence, a patriot, a bridge builder who lived a fulfilled life in the service of Nigeria” “Nigeria and indeed the North have lost a great elder statesman, who endeared himself to all by upholding the values most Northerners share which include justice, liberty, common decency and equal opportunity for all. However, he would have been happier if the values he cherished and died for were being put into practice. ACF therefore calls upon Nigerians to emulate and live up his legacy in our daily lives. “ACF extends its heartfelt condolences to Katsina Emirate Council, the Government and people of Katsina State and the Government and people of Nigeria in general. May Allah (SWT) grant Ibrahim Coomassie eternal rest in Aljannah Firdaus and Nigerians the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.”