The wife of the Vice President of the Republic of Ghana, Her Excellency, Hajia Samira Bawumia, was yesterday at the Conference Hall, inside the Ghanaian High Commission, Abuja, Nigeria awarded for her humanitarian and philanthropic contributions to humanity by the Governing Council of WHAF International. The occasion also witnessed visiting diplomats across Africa, representatives from ECOWAS Nigeria and Ambassadors. In an interview with the Principal Consultant and Country Director, Ambassador Hillary Emoh said that Her Excellency, Hajia Samira Bawumia is one of the few Great African Women Leader’s that are truly humanitarian. He said that her support towards ending Child Mortality and Women Empowerment in Africa is truly commendable urging others to emulate her. In a related development, the Chairman BOT, WHAF International, High Chief Sunnie Chukwumele, who spoke on behalf of the Governing Council said that the Ghanaian’s are Nigerian first cousins and so as cousins, they must endeavour to continue keeping a mutual relationship amongst each other. He also pointed out that promoting culture, cultural diversity, intercultural communication is essential to having a sustainable habitat. The highlight of the ceremony was the induction of Her Excellency, Hajia Bawumia into the Hall of Fame by the Governing Council. Hajia Bawumia was among the few selected to be honoured at the 4th edition of the World Habitat Leadership Conference and Awards Ceremony which took place earlier this year on the 19th May, 2018 with the theme: ‘Building a Sustainable Habitat on the Pillars of PEACE, Security and Development’ with presentations from Dr Ahmed Adamu, first Ever Chairperson, Commonwealth Youth Council and a comprehensive presentation from representatives of the Japanese Embassy. Others who were honoured at the Conference included, Highness Alhaji Mohammed S. Haliru Dantoro, The Emir of Borgu Kingdom, Apostle (Dr) Ejiofor Chinedum Emmanuel who bag the Award for Global Excellence and was the only awardee inducted into the “Hall of Fame” by the Governing Council, others who won the Award for Global Excellence are Comrade (Dr) Nuhu Solomon Anyegwu, Prince Kazeem Eletu Odibo, Amb. Ginika Tor-Williams, DG NOSDRA, Sir Peter Idabor, Dr. Emmanuel Iyamu, Barr. Shehu gado mni, Director,  Corporate Affairs Commission Abuja, Chief ( Dr) Cliff Ogbede, Continental Director, UK Base Foreign Trade Investment Service Africa, Hon. Andrew Omagbemi Igban, Comrade Onuh Udoka, Onyinye Nwosu. WHAF is working to help people to access decent, healthy and secure shelter through identifying innovative housing policy, practices and promoting these ideals through programmes, events, summit, workshops and conferences. 