A retired Major General from the Nigerian Army and former Sole Administrator of the Nigerian  ‎Customs, Samuel Gaski Ango, over the weekend made good his threat to evict his wife, Juliet and his 14-year-old son from their residence, located at Plot 714, Tennessee Crescent, Maitama, Abuja. According to a court document obtained by LEADERSHIP newspaper, Juliet had dragged ‎her husband before a high court of the Federal Capital Territory to restrain him from evicting her and her son from the house. Despite the order of the court‎, a bulldozer was said to have pulled down the perimeter fence of the building and part of the building on the orders of General Ango, over the weekend. When our correspondent visited the building, the perimeter fence and part of the building had been pulled down. According to Juliet, all the locks of the house ‎were also changed. Justice V. Venda of the court had in a motion exparte on June 29, 2017‎ ordered General Ango not to eject his wife either lawfully or otherwise from the residence until the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. Justice Venda said, “the respondent is hereby ordered not to eject the petitioner (Juliet) either lawfully or otherwise from Plot 714 Tennessee Crescent, Maitama, Abuja, up until the hearing and determination of the motion on notice which shall be heard on 26/10/17.” Mrs. Ango and her husband, who was sole administrator of Customs from 1994 to 1998 got married in 2003 and lived together until 2013 when General Ango moved out of their Maitama residence. According to Mrs. Ango, her husband suddenly moved out of the house in 2013 and relocated to Kaduna,‎ without giving her prior notice. She stated that they had been separated for three years before the suit was filed adding that her estranged husband usually came to the house with his family members to harass her and her son. “The respondent ( General Ango) has continued to threaten forceful eviction of the petitioner and her only child ‎of the marriage without alternative provision. “The petitioner is also afraid for the safety ‎of her child as the respondent may force her and the only child to the street”, she told the court through her lawyer, Kayode Ajulo. Ajulo, in a petition to the Commissioner of Police of the Federal Capital Territory said, “the crisis‎ in the marriage got to its head when our client recently received a notice from a lawyer who claimed to be representing the General with an attachment of a letter of instruction, wherein the lawyer claimed he has been instructed to sell their matrimonial home by the General and our client was given 30days to move out of the house.”