The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has given assurance that the concerns raised by former President Olusegun Obasanjo about the party have been extensively addressed under its refocused and repositioned leadership. The PDP therefore beckoned on all political folds to jettison all personal interests and rally around the party’s rebranded and people-oriented platform to rescue the nation from misgovernance. The former ruling party was apparently reacting to comments credited to former President Olusegun Obasanjo who dismissed the party as a credible platform for national leadership owing to its past record of impunity. But in a statement he issued yesterday, Ologbondiyan PDP spokesman,  Kola Ologbondiyan, said reforms and rebranding efforts, particularly the full entrenchment of internal democracy, all-inclusiveness and re-engineered  mechanisms for good governance have returned the party to the much desired political platform for the actualisation of the wishes and aspirations of Nigerians ahead of the 2019 general election. He added that in the last five months, since the coming of the new leadership, under Prince Uche Secondus, PDP had undergone extensive re-engineering in  direct response to suggestions, criticisms and a wide-range of  constructive criticisms from a cross section of Nigerians. The statement said: “The transparent processes, leading to the peaceful conduct of an open, credible, free and fair governorship primary in Ekiti State at a time when other political parties are enmeshed in impunity-induced crisis and violence is a loud testimony of the democratic credentials and principles of the repositioned PDP. “Furthermore, the reconciliatory efforts of the Governor Seriake Dickson’s committee as well as the rebuilding of the party through the Contact and Integration committee are yielding tremendous dividends as manifested in the mammoth crowd that graced our rallies in Jigawa, Katsina and Osun states.” The main opposition party added that it remained the only political platform with genuine followership and structure in all the electoral wards across the local government areas, states and the six geo-political zones in the country. “It is also instructive to add that majority of Nigerians still identify with the PDP as the vehicle for national cohesion, unity, economic prosperity and personal freedom of our citizens. “Moreover, the repositioned PDP remains resolute in defending the rights and freedom of Nigerians, irrespective of their ethnicity, creed or political persuasions.” The party stressed that it had the best platform for the coalition  of true democrats who are desirous of removing the Buhari Presidency from Aso Rock through the ballot in the 2019 general election in order to rescue Nigeria from  “the shackles of deceits, beguilement, hunger, starvation, bloodletting and wanton killings which have become the hallmark of the APC administration.”