Professionals in the Nigerian health sector have expresses divergent opinions on the way the federal government handled the codeine abuse issue. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that the federal government, through the Federal Ministry of Health, had banned the importation and use of codein as an ingredient in making cough syrup in the country following its addictive effects on abusers of the drug. A consultant neuropsychiatrist and executive director, Centre for Information and Prevention of Mental Health, Dr Uchendu Ikedilichukwu Ubueye, believes the codeine ban is the right step but he expected more. He said:  “We actually don’t believe that the ban is what will solve the problem. The major thing is that, unfortunately, both the federal government and the state governments, and all the agencies that are concerned are battling the problem with a kid’s glove. There is a kind of denial or unwillingness to do the right thing until it got to this magnitude that a foreign media has to raise the awareness for us. “There have been people who have been talking about it but nobody seemed to care. So I think the ban is, as usual, the Nigerian character of trying to just do something so that people would say they are doing something. To me it is not a well thought-out decision; for such a problem there could have been a stakeholders’ meeting where people should be able to be able to be sincere with each other and tell ourselves the truth. “Banning codeine would never really solve the problem; it would only force it underground and what has happened now is that the price of codeine had gone up. Prior to the ban it was about N600, now it is over N1,000. It is also more lucrative for those who are doing the business, those who are importing it. Even the agencies that are supposed to enforce the regulation, it would be lucrative for those officials who are not honest and patriotic. That is when they can illegally enrich themselves. Dr Ubueye advocated what he called a demand reduction approach to tackle the codein abuse problem. “Demand reduction means there should be a grassroots massive nationwide campaign by people who know what codeine and its effects are – people like neuropsychologists, clinical psychologists, and not some agencies coming to do things in reaction to some public opinion.” He lamented the terrible effects of the codein addiction on youths and said fire brigade approach would not help the situation. “The lives of the Nigerian youths are going down the drain. My own is that if they have started this fire brigade approach they should not stop there. Tramadol and pentatusine are there – they are so many, even Indian hemp is there. I think it is high time the governments at all levels really sat down to solve this menace because if this continues for the next ten years, I assure you we will not have a nation that we can be proud of.” He challenged the National Orientation Agency (NOA) to take up its mandate and “go down to the roots, to the nursery and primary schools, and make it an active and continuous effort – just the way awareness about HIV/AIDs was done and also Ebola was handled.” Also speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend, a university don, Dr Pam Dung, concurred with Dr Ubueye that the ban was a small part of the solution. “The banning of codeine is a step but it is just a very minor step because you will have to look at all the illicit substances. After looking at all substances then you take action. Generally for me, I think they should make the laws prohibiting the use of illicit drugs, even alcohol and all. If they can do that it would go a long way rather than just banning one product.” He urged the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and the NOA to do a public orientation on the dangers of the abuse of such substances, saying it would have been much better than the outright ban of codeine. On his part, Dr Bala Gana, a doctor with University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, said there needs to be restriction on the use of codeine. “If it (codein) must be used, there must be indication and prescription because before now it was easily gotten over the counter. “I think the federal government was in a hurry to ban it; that is why it was reversed. They should look at it properly and not just rush into decision without weighing the options. We should create a system whereby it is dispensed with a prescription – because there are actually drugs that the pharmacist would not give you without prescription. We have drugs that pharmacists won’t dispense until they see a prescription. But people always find a way to go around the rules. So you find some of these drugs still in the open market, in the patent medicine stores. LEADERSHIP Weekend reports that during a press conference by Nigeria Association of Community Pharmacist in Lagos, the association affirmed that the unrestricted access to codeine and other drugs like tramadol was responsible for the rising spate of drug abuse in the country. According to the chairman of the association, Pharm Olabanji Benedict, codeine was still being sold in the open market because of government’s failure to recall it after announcing the ban. “The problem of codeine cough syrup abuse has been with us for a long time. However, we feel that the decision to ban codeine cough syrup by the federal government is not the right way to address the problem of its abuse. This will only lead to an increase in the price of the item since the old stock is still being sold secretly in the open market as it had not been recalled. Also, it will deny some citizens who genuinely need them to cater for their health the chance to do so.”