…Says It’s Coasting to Victory in July Polls The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the outcome of its governor primaries in Ekiti State shows that impunity, imposition and inteferences in electoral process have been thrown into the dustbin of history. The party stated this while commending its members in Ekiti State, particularly Governor Ayo Fayose, aspirants as well as the delegates, for the conduct of a peaceful, free, fair and credible PDP governorship primary on Tuesday. The national publicity secretary of the party, Kola Ologbodinyan, said the “unprecedented orderliness and spirit of sportsmanship that pervaded the exercise is a clear testimony of the engrained values of fairness and strict adherence to internal democracy in the rebranded, repositioned and retooled PDP. “Under the leadership of Prince Uche Secondus, the PDP has thrown impunity, imposition and inteferences in electoral process, into the dustbin of history.” The party added that the Osun and Ekiti electoral thresholds will guide its electioneering processes at all levels, particularly, our presidential primary. “The party commends the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led electoral committee for ensuring a transparent exercise and a level playing ground for all our aspirants in Ekiti State. “Our primary was contested by credible individuals of proven integrity and credentials, who exhibited the highest level of selflessness throughout the exercise, in keeping with the resolve of all members to work together to ensure the victory of our party in the July election. “With the emergence of a formidable candidate such as Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka, and the incontrovertible popularity of the PDP across Ekiti state, we are already standing shoulder to shoulder with the people as we set for a very robust, issue-based campaign in our inevitable march to victory. “We note that our popularity in the state is a direct response to Gov. Fayose’s achievements in delivering democracy dividend to the people. “Ekiti State remains a stronghold of the PDP as demonstrated in our sweeping victory in the December 2017 council polls, which evidences our party’s popularity not only in Ekiti state but also in the entire Southwest, where we will soon retake all our original states, and the nation at large,” the party said. PDP further urged the people to continue to be vigilant and resist all external forces “being sponsored by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to disrupt the peace of the state, having realized that they have no place in the hearts of the people of Ekiti State.”