Bauchi State governor, Mohammed Abubakar has explained reasons why his deputy and other persons in his administration have resigned in recent time. Speaking to State House correspondents yesterday after observing the Jumaat prayers at the presidential Villa, Governor Abubakar said they could not cope with the pace of his administration. On why people are resigning from his cabinet, he said “Because I have come to Bauchi state to endanger change and change is very very difficult for people to accept. People are used to a certain way of doing business and I have come to change that way of doing business. Because, that way was destroying Bauchi State. So, we had to put a stop to it, we had to bring Bauchi state out of 5e dungeon. I give people a chance and if you think you can go at my pace you stay and if you can’t go at my pace you resign. When asked if his deputy resigned because he couldn’t go at his pace and are we expecting more resignation, the governor replied “I don’t know. On reports credited to the spokesman to the deputy governor that he resigned because he was not being treated as part of the government, the governor dismissed the allegations as baseless. “I see. I think he is wrong. Go to the House of Assembly and check, I went on official leave twice since I took over and each time I transmitted a letter from to the House of Assembly making him the acting governor of Bauchi. “Moreover, I have him the most important ministry, ministry of education where I have been allocating the largest share of the budget of Bauchi state since 2008. That should answer your question. Speaking further, he said “What transpired is in the letter of the deputy and I think people should read that letter. Read the entire letter and you will see that there was nothing bad that transpired between. His final paragraph is that he remains loyal to his leader and his brother. In my response I eulogized him and wished him the best in his future endeavour and assured him of the support of the good people of Bauchi State. There was no problem whatsoever. The word resignation connotes a will on the part of the person who has offered, he offered his letter willingly and there is no way you can force him to accept an employment when the time has come for him to look else where. On his working relationship between him and his deputy,he said “We had the most fantastic working relationship. In his words and you can ask him, hr has said several times that he is the most pampered deputy governor in Nigeria. Recall that the Deputy Governor, Nuhu Gidado resigned this week . In December 2017, the Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Shehu Ningi, resigned from his position. In March, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Investment, Samaila Sanusi, also resigned due to “unfriendly working environment”. Also around the same time, Munnir Yisin, deputy caretaker chairman of Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area, also tendered his resignation.