A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola has finally parted ways with the ruling party as he tendered his letter of resignation from the chairmanship of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to the presidency. The letter that was addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari read in parts, “Sir, I write to resign my appointment as the chairman of National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) with effect from today, 9th May, 2018. “Your Excellency, I must put on record my very deep sense of appreciation for the special privilege and consideration you gave me to serve our fatherland in that capacity. As I stated in my appreciation letter to you shortly after the appointment, the offer was a clear call to service. I gave the job the dedication it deserved and would have loved to continue but I regret to inform Your Excellency that I have a new, greater political engagement that will make that difficult and even impolitic. “Sir, as one of my bosses in the army, I believe you would understand my stand given recent political developments. The training I got as a decorated officer and gentleman precluded me from engaging in any act that could amount to disloyalty and conflict of interest. I am moving on to chart a new course in my politics outside the ruling party and this thus, demands my dropping the NIMC chairmanship. “I thank you, sir, once again for the great honour and confidence reposed in me. However, there is time to take a job and another time to leave it and move on. For me, the time to work on something else in the interest and service of our people is now. “I wish Your Excellency good-luck while praying that you will finish well and strong in the service of our country.” Oyinlola who claimed to be chatting a new course in his political life noted that it would amount to disloyalty if he should remain in office and continue in his newly found political circle. Oyinlola, the immediate past governor of Osun State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party defected to the ruling APC when he faced political challenges as the National Secretary of PDP. He is today in the vanguard of former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s third force that is warming up to oust President Muhammadu Buhari. 