Former Edo State governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday declared that he would ensure win-win solutions to the crisis within the All Progressives Congress (APC) if elected the ruling party’s national chairman. Oshiomhole, who stated this when he made a public declaration of his intention to vie for the national chairmanship position of the governing APC ahead of the forthcoming national convention, said he possessed the needed capability to put the party on the right and firm footing. He added that nobody in the party can use him for personal interest. The onetime Labour leader also declared that unlike other past leaders, President Muhammadu Buhari “is not a thief.” At a hall filled to capacity with supporters at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja, yesterday, Oshiomohle said if given the opportunity to be the next APC national chairman, he would rebrand the party and make it a more acceptable platform. Oshiomhole said: “We have what it takes to provide that leadership that Africa will be proud of and we shall be a reference point. “The skill to negotiate, the skill to persuade, the skills to make consensus, the skills to do give-and-take, the skill to talk through a process that will lead to win-win solutions rather than the winners and the losers, those are the tools I have deployed as a branch union leader, becoming the president of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC). So, I am not a stranger. “I believe that the idea of the constitution and the spirit behind it, it has been deliberately framed in such a way that no one will have his ways, but all. We can have our ways if we negotiate, persuade, discuss and have a sense of collectivity as we move on.” While comparing President Buhari to other past leaders, the national chairmanship aspirant said: “The worst critic will agree that the president is not a thief. That for me is the starting point and we will challenge others. All the former leaders, who on the basis of verifiable evidence – that we can see – can be so described without fear of contradiction; that for me is a starting point as we move on to engage those who wish to engage us. “I am confident that Nigerians are ready to progress and our party is ready to mend where we have made mistakes, and re-energise and confront the problems that confront our country, bearing in mind that the entire black world looks unto us. We have what it takes to provide that leadership that Africa will be proud of and we shall be a reference point.” Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, who endorsed the candidacy of Oshiomohle, said he was the kind of national chairman the party needed at this time. “Oshiomhole’s coming in as national chairman of APC is bad news to other political parties. Adams Oshiomhole is a dogged fighter, a man who face challenges, and I have no doubt that you will strengthen APC when elected,” he said. Speaking on some of the injustice he noticed in the APC, Okorocha said the era of ‘Monkey dey work, Baboon dey chop’ is over in the party. “If you work, you chop, you don’t work, you don’t chop. We have a lot of urban masqueraders in APC now and you must force them out. And I know Adams Oshiomhole is a no-nonsense man: he will stand forthright; he will face them – both in debate, action, physical, mental, moral, spiritual – he can face the opposition. But I don’t know about the spiritual aspect.” On the chances of President Buhari in 2019, Okorocha said despite the ongoing campaign against the re-election bid of the incumbent president, Buhari will not need to campaign in the northern region to win in 2019 as his popularity would carry him through. He expressed the hope that Oshiomhole, if elected, would help the party to win elections in the south where the president’s fame is not a guarantee of electoral victory “For those our governors in the north, they won the election so easily for as long as the name Buhari stands in the north. But it’s not the same thing talking about President Muhammadu Buhari’s name in the South South or South East. So if you see any governor emerges in the South South or South East, it is not with ordinary strength, and I believe that Oshiomhole’s coming will strengthen this party in that part,” the Imo governor said. Ekiti Guber Primary Rescheduled For Tomorrow The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday in Abuja, said it had rescheduled the Ekiti State governorship primary for tomorrow, May 12. APC national publicity secretary, Bolaji Abudulahi, explained in a statement that the decision to reschedule the primary followed consultations between the party’s National Working Committee (NWC), aspirants and stakeholders. The APC national leadership had earlier announced Friday, May 11, as the date for a fresh primary for the July 14 Ekiti governorship election. This followed the cancellation of the May 5 primary which was marred by violence. Party stakeholders from the South West had on Tuesday in Abuja met with the 33 aspirants competing for the party’s ticket to contest the Ekiti governorship election. The aspirants include former governor and minister of Mines and Steel Development, Dr Kayode Fayemi; senior special assistant to the president on Political Matters, Sen. Femi Ojudu; former governor of the state, Chief Segun Oni, and Mr Bamidele Opeyemi among others. Former national chairman of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Chief Bisi Akande, told newsmen after the meeting that the leaders would advise the national leadership of the party on the proposed fresh primary in Ekiti. Akande said the meeting took a decision on what would be best for the party and the country generally, adding that a consensus candidate might be an option. Consensus is already in our constitution and it is an option; also primary election is already in our constitution. But what we want is the general happiness of the leaders of the party, the contestants and our party,” he said. Chief Akande, however, disclosed that the aspirants were asked to think about arriving at a consensus candidate ahead of the rescheduled primary.