The National Judicial Council (NJC) yesterday recommended the compulsory retirement of a judge of the High Court of Adamawa State, Justice Michael Goji, to the governor of the state, Jibrilla Bindow. The NJC, in a statement, also said it had set up seven committees to look into the allegations levelled against some judges by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC). The director of information at the council, Mr. Soji Oye, who signed the statement, said Justice Goji had now been placed on suspension pending the governor’s approval of the NJC’s recommendation. According to the statement, Goji was sanctioned “for refusing to proceed on transfer to the Mubi Judicial Division of the State High Court since July 2017.” Moreover, the NJC also recommended that he refund the salaries he had received from July 2017 till date, failing which the Adamawa State Government is to deduct the amount from any entitlement due to him and remit same to the NJC. The statement further said the NJC cleared a Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Paul Galinje, as well as 10 other judges, of separate allegations of misconduct levelled against them. The judges cleared include chief judges of three states – Justice Aminu Ringim (Jigawa), Justice Peter Umeadi (Enugu), and Taminu Zailani, (Kaduna). The statement reads in part: “Petition against Hon. Mr. Justice Paul Adamu Galinje of the Supreme Court was dismissed sequel to its withdrawal by Hon. Yaro Abarshi and Hon. John Yobi Yarafa and others, who alleged that he interfered in a chieftaincy matter in Taraba State. “The petition against Hon. Mr. Justice Aminu Sabo Ringim was also dismissed because the petitioner, Dr Jamil Gwamna, who wrote to Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, minister of Power and Works, who in turn, forwarded same to the National Judicial Council, withdrew the petition. “The allegation was that the Hon. Judge ordered the arrest, assault, and detention of staff of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) when they disconnected the electricity at the State High Court and the judge’s house for non-payment of bills. “The committee that investigated the matter found that the petitioner could not show or prove that Hon. Justice Ringim instructed or directed the arrest of KEDCO’s staff.” It noted that the Council did not find any reason to further investigate Justices Galinje and Ringim after the withdrawals of the petitions against them. According to the statement, “Petitions written against 25 judicial officers and others by EFCC were also considered by Council after which it resolved to empanel seven committees to look into the allegations.” The NJC noted that some other petitions were dismissed for various reasons including failure of the petitioner to establish the case of misconduct, being subjudice or those petitions being matters for appeal. “The dismissed petitions were against Justices A. I. Chikere and J. T Tsoho, Emeka Nwite and Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court; Justice Adetokunbo Banjoko of FCT High Court; Justice Taminu Zailani, Chief Judge, Kaduna;. Justice M. A. Adeigbe, High Court, Osun State (who had already retired from the Bench), and Justice E. N. Ogbuiji, High Court, Rivers State. “Council at the meeting also recommended 21 judges for appointment as Chief Judges, Grand Kadi, High Court Judges, Sharia Court Kadis, President, Customary Court of Appeal, and one member, Code of Conduct Tribunal. The NJC also queried 16 judges for their poor performance last year. “Council also received the report of the Performance Evaluation Committee of Judicial Officers of Superior Courts of Record in the federation on16 judges invited by the Committee to explain their low performance in the last two to four quarters in the year 2017,” the statement concluded.