The much-awaited Governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to pick its candidate for the July 14th election in Ekiti State came up last Saturday but was marred by violence, accusations and counter-accusations from major contending aspirants, leading to its indefinite suspension. OLAJIDE OMOJOLOMOJU reports on the issues leading to the ugly scenario The All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election to elect the candidate that will fly the party’s flag in the July 14th gubernatorial election in Ekiti State entered stormy waters midway to the event on Saturday, as party members and delegates disrupted the process over allegation that the process was manipulated to favour an alleged predetermined aspirant. The aggrieved delegates claimed that some were being manoeuvred and ‘tactically induced’ to vote in favour of former governor and Minister of Steel and Mines Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. But another report claimed that those who disrupted the primary exercise were thugs allegedly imported into the venue by Fayemi, when he allegedly noticed that things were not going his way. The thugs, numbering about 20, had entered the venue of the voting exercise and pounced on the ballot boxes, allegedly on the suspicion that Senator Babafemi Ojudu was ahead of the 33 aspirants, with former governor of the state, Chief Segun Oni, trailing him. As at the time of disruption, about four out of the 16 local governments in Ekiti State had voted in the exercise, while all special delegates of the party, comprising former governors, former deputy governors, former senators, former members of the House of Representatives and members of the State Working Committee, (SWC), had cast their votes. The podium harbouring the ballot boxes and other voting materials became target of the aggrieved delegates and party members, who scattered ballot boxes and other election materials, while some of them were arrested by security agents on ground, a few others however escaped. However, there was mixed reactions among delegates on Saturday. While many insisted that the process was already compromised and would definitely not have reflected the wish of the electorate, many others insisted that the process must be completed and results announced. Agents of some strong contenders for the ticket of the party fingered security agents of alleged compromise in the process, allegedly favouring Fayemi. LEADERSHIP learnt that the process was initially delayed by a torrential and stormy rain for about two hours, before voting finally commenced. Voting commenced at about 3.30pm after the torrential and stormy downfall had nearly destroyed the tent erected in the heart of the stadium where Al-Makura and members of his committee were to be seated. Addressing the delegates after the rains had subsided, the chairman of the Primary Election Committee, governor of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Tanko Al-Makura, after apologising for the delay, said, “We are about to start the voting now, we are sorry for the delay and we also commend you for your understanding. “Let me plead with delegates to be orderly. All the 33 aspirants that you have paraded are eminently qualified to lead Ekiti. “So, be rest assured that no fake delegate will vote here and no eligible one will be disenfranchised. “We are beginning with authentication of the accredited delegates after which we shall give you the ballot to cast your votes.” Trouble started around 5.30pm when some agents raised observations about how the process was allegedly compromised, accusing some security agents of dictating to delegates who they should vote for. When the situation was getting out of hand and was escalating into a full-scale war, police and other security agencies shot sporadically into the air to scare the trouble mongers, while efforts by Al-Makura to calm frayed nerves proved abortive. Fayemi’s agents were also accused of dictating to delegates who to vote for and were also accused of writing the serial numbers of delegates’ ballot papers to authenticate who they actually voted for, probably for pecuniary gains after the poll. The agents’ protest had attracted their principals and other interested parties, who joined the fray and made spirited efforts to grab the ballot boxes to stall the entire process. The Kayode Oluyemi Stadium venue of the primary election almost became a free for all venue, as sachets of water were thrown indiscriminately by the delegates, while also chanting derisive songs against the former governor The police and men of the Department of State Security Services, DSS, rebuffed attempts to snatch ballot boxes containing already thumb printed ballot papers. In the melee, security agencies also arrested one man for allegedly trying to grab the ballot box and he was stripped naked and taken into the custody. Speaking, the Director General of Babafemi Ojudu Campaign Organisation, Chief Ranti Adebisi, complained that the process has been heavily compromised, adding, “The guideline stipulated that each aspirant can only bring in four supporters, but Fayemi brought many, more than four. “His agents, including the DSS, were issuing cards to delegates to fill when they vote for him, so that they can later come for the money he promised them. “I contested against Fayemi in 2007 and I knew what I’m talking about. The process has been compromised. Even, Fayemi has been bragging around that he is a friend to Alhaji Al-Makura, so we are disappointed that this could happen.” A chieftain of the party, Mr. Femi Afolabi, alleged that the process has been compromised by some security agencies, whom he said were dictating who they should vote for after authentication. But Fayemi’s agent, Mr Samuel Bejide, said it was a gang-up against the minister that led to the spurious allegation, accusing those peddling the rumour as enemies of the APC. He said, “It was a proviso that if you are a delegate who can’t read and write, you can call any of the agents. When they saw that I was the one being called, they started feeling the heat and they were determined to disrupt it.” After the fracas, the chairman of the election committee and Nasarawa governor, Al-Makura, went into a closed-door meeting with the aspirants and other leaders of the party in the state. Recall that the statutory number of delegates in Ekiti APC was 2,618, but the number dropped on account of deaths, defections to other parties and inabilities to fill some vacant positions. But in his own reaction, Fayemi expressed disappointment in his co-aspirants for disrupting the exercise. Condemning the disruption of the primary election, Fayemi described it as the height of despicable desperation on the part of some aspirants, specifically mentioning Special Adviser to the President on Political Affaiars, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and one-time Director-General of Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation in the 2014 gubernatorial election and former member of the House of Representatives, Bimbo Daramola. In a release by his media aide, Yinka Oyebode, Fayemi said that the APC does not deserve the type of ridicule which the shameful act of the hoodlums, who disrupted the primary process had subjected it to. He said that some aspirants, who having seen defeat staring them in the face, conspired together to ensure that the exercise was not concluded. Dr Fayemi accused the aspirants of resorting to violence and destruction, having realised that he was already in a clear lead in the five local government areas that had cast their votes. Sating that he was not surprised by the antics of the aspirants, Dr Fayemi, revealed that the security agencies had, a few days before the primary, been notified of plans by some aspirants to deploy hoodlums to disrupt the exercise. He said, “It is quite painful seeing some desperate elements trying so much to rubbish the party we all laboured to build to national reckoning, out of share lust for power. “If the quest for political position is to serve, then one wonders why the desperation being displayed by the likes of Ojudu and Daramola. “Certainly the conduct of these desperate aspirants falls short of the minimum standards expected of anyone that professes progressive ideals. “We urge our teeming supporters and loyal party members not to be discouraged by this despicable act. This surely shall pass, and better days are ahead. Our collective rescue mission has indeed begun.” But Ojudu responded to Fayemi, saying that Fayemi was actually the one who brought thugs to disrupt the primary since he knew he was going to lose. Ojudu, reacting through his campaign organization, the Ekiti Rebirth Organization, ERO, condemned the disruption of the primary by thugs allegedly loyal to one of the aspirants, saying it represented the highest level of desperation in anybody’s quest for political office. Speaking through ERO spokesman, Gboyega Adeoye, Ojudu said, “When they said they were going to cripple the state, we did not know what they meant was to attempt to forcefully hijack the ticket. Now that we know better, we assure they will meet stiff resistance from our people.” ERO claimed that the gubernatorial primary was going on smoothly and the delegates casting their votes before thugs allegedly loyal to Fayemi smashed some ballot boxes, leading to the disruption of the process. Adeoye said, “The pandemonium that ensued snowballed into serious fracas that caused every delegates scampering for safety and an abrupt seizure in the voting process. Ekiti State has been under siege preparatory to the primaries as ferocious looking armed mobile policemen that came in company of the minister, seized all the major streets for days, in reckless display of show of oppression and terror. “Dr Fayemi, during his declaration vowed that he was ready to use every underhand means to secure the ticket, but our people have come out to say a resounding No! No amount of intimidation, brigandage and crude display of wealth will stop the people’s will to install a fresh hand in our state. “We are ready for Fayemi, we have always campaigned for a transparent primary election, because we have the people on our side. With the reaction of the people to the attempt to compromise the process, Fayemi now knows he does not have Ekiti people in his pocket.” Reacting to Fayemi’s allegation, Daramola on Sunday, said Fayemi’s allegations are most unfounded. He said, “My attention has been drawn to the press release signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Minister of Solid Minerals, Mr Kayode Fayemi. “I thought we already passed this stage in our quest for political power, the allegations are most unfounded, he declared. “Much as I have committed to dignified silence as I have done reasonably in the past 19 months, I will continue to keep myself and team in check in the face of provocative statements. “As I have said at the post ‘abortion’ meeting, today is not very gratifying to our people, party and reputation. “That things went awry yesterday further confirmed that a lot of people still operate within the circumference of inordinate assumptions. “Not only that I totally condemn the unfortunate incident which I find reprehensible, but something must have triggered that, that should be of interest to all beyond the press release where two paragraphs were devoted to tar me black!” Daramola declared that it is shocking that Fayemi now describes him as a man driven by “lust for power,” adding that it was a shock for him that a man who has known him for 40 years, in a “relationship that has witnessed so many episodic moments, some good, many bad and many unseen moments” would so describe him. He added, “I reiterate without mincing words and I am sure both the CPS and the minister know that it’s too late in the day for me to acquire an image that is not mine, I can bet it. “Lastly, I challenge anybody to show evidences of my involvement in the unfortunate incident of yesterday for which the press release was issued to attack my reputation.” Also reacting to the violence that attended the postponed primary, the state governor, Ayodele Fayose, who took to his Twitter handle, described APC members as “hypocrites and enemies of democracy,” adding that the APC is already a house divided against itself. Fayose said, “The whole world can now see the so-called progressives. Ordinary primary election, the APC could not hold here in Ekiti. These people are hypocrites and enemies of democracy, masquerading as progressives. “Their party is a house divided against itself, its center will never hold. “If they could be this violent during their own primary election, won’t they do worse things during the election proper? “The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, must be mindful of being used to manipulate the July 14 election in favour of APC. More so that they have by their conduct today, failed themselves.” A supporter of former Governor Oni, Chief Hakeem Fakunle, said that Fayemi became uneasy when it became clear to him that Ojudu was leading in the race. He said, “We are shocked about the manner Fayemi brought thugs to this place. They came in under the guise of observers. They were brought in from Ondo and Kogi states, where his friends are the state governors.” Many delegates who spoke under the condition of anonymity condemned what they described as Fayemi’s demonstration of “rash desperation” in his bid to return to an office he was roundly defeated about four years ago by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. He was the state governor between 2010 and 2014, before he lost to Fayose in 2014, without even winning a single local government in the election. A human rights activist, who was a monitor in the election said, “We are shocked by what Dr Fayemi did today. It’s a big disgrace. He acted below the best global practices in democratic culture.” Although, LEADERSHIP was not privy to what transpired at the stakeholders’ meeting with Al-Makura,who refused to talk to the press after the meeting, it was learnt that the emergency meeting with all the 33 aspirants did not yield much positive result. LEADERSHIP also learnt top on the discussion at the meeting was a commitment from all concerned to allow for a peaceful conduct of the primary election at a future date. Two of the aspirants, Daramola and former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr. Femi Bamisile, disclosed that the indefinite suspension of the exercise was a unanimous decision reached at the meeting. Dismissing insinuation that the violence that marred the exercise was as a result of Fayemi leading in the election, Bamisile said, “I don’t believe that is correct. The votes have not been counted, so that was an assumption. “Ekiti APC is not in any way fractured, we are one big family. If Fayemi defeats us, we are all going to back him, because the party is supreme. But this must come through a free, fair and credible process.” With the stalemate reached in the Ekiti APC primary election, unless the party puts its house in order and do the needful, it may not be able to participate in the July 14 election, unless it beats the deadline for the conduct of its primary election as stipulated by INEC. Political observers believe that what has happened in Ekiti is a smear on the APC and its claim to progressiveness and called on the party leadership to nip the ugly trend in the bud, before it becomes the party’s trademark at future primary election.