The Nigeria Customs Service Board (NCSB) has announced the confirmation of the appointments of four members of its management and approved the promotion of 1,997 Senior Officers to various ranks. The promotions were approved at its first meeting held on Thursday, 10th May, a statement by the service’s public relations officer, Joseph Attah said. Attah said the meeting was presided over by the Hon. Minister of Finance and Chairman, Nigeria Customs Service Board (NCSB), Mrs. Kemi Adeosun. The meeting considered the yardsticks for the promotion, which includes cumulative scores of annual evaluation, written examination, oral Interview, seniority and Availability of Vacancies, approved those most eligible for the promotion which has 1st January, 2017 as the effective date. Immediately after the Board meeting which was held at the Ministry of Finance, the newly confirmed members of NCS Management were decorated in the Comptroller-General‘s office. Those affected are: DCG, Talatu Isa Mairo (Tariff and Trade), ACG, David Elijah Chikan (HRD), ACG, Ibrahim Yakubu Maikarfi (FATS) and ACG, Ali Bukar Amajam ( E, I & I). A breakdown of those promoted showed that 49 Deputy Comptrollers were promoted to Comptrollers of Customs, Assistant Comptrollers to Deputy Comptrollers of Customs – 52; while 33 Chief Superintendents were elevated to Assistant Comptrollers of Customs. Also, 370 Superintendents promoted to the rank of Chief Superintendents of Customs; Deputy Superintendents to Superintendents of Customs – 372, Assistant while another 452 Superintendents I got promoted to Deputy Superintendents of Customs. As Assistant Superintedents II were promoted to Assistant Superintedents of Customs I NIL Inspectors of Customs to Assistant Superintendents of Customs II 380. Under the service’s support staff cadre, 5 Deputy Comptrollers were lifted to Comptrollers of Customs, with 8 Assistant Comptrollers moved to Deputy Comptrollers of Customs and 9 Chief Superintendents elevated to Assistant Comptrollers of Customs. Others are: Superintendents to Chief Superintendents of Customs – 9; Deputy Superintendents to Superintendents of Customs – 19; Assistant Superintendents I to Deputy Superintendents of Customs -15; Assistant Superintendents II to Assistant Superintendents of Customs I – 79 and Inspectors to Assistant Superintendent of Customs II – 145. While decorating the confirmed members of Management, the CGC, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd), charged them and the newly promoted officers to see their elevations as a call to higher duties. He charged them to recommit themselves to the course of service delivery and build on the gains of the on-going reforms in the Service.