President Muhammadu Buhari has observed that even though the country has witnessed hard times in the last three years, the people have not allowed themselves to be overcome by the situation. He also declared that herders/farmers clashes, kidnappings and other forms of banditry across the country are being addressed by his government. The president who gave the assurance this morning in a nationwide broadcast aired on national television and radio stations to mark this year’sDemocracy Day speech vowed that identified culprits of these crimes and their sponsors shall be made to face the full wrath of the law. He said, “The unfortunate incidences of kidnappings, herdsmen and farmers clashes in several communities which have led to high number of fatalities and loss of properties across the country is being addressed and the identified culprits  and their sponsors shall be made to face the full wrath of the law. “All the three tiers of Government are presently engaged with communities and religious organizations to restore peaceful co-existence among Nigerians’. Buhari commended  members of the Multinational Joint Task Force drawn from Niger, Benin, Chad, Cameroon and Nigeria  in collaboration with the International Community who are assisting in the fight against insurgency in the North East. He also commended  the gallantry of members of our Armed Forces and other security agencies who he said have continued to provide security for lives and properties across the country, even as he noted that state and local traditional authorities are helping with the much needed intelligence in the fight against insurgency. The president noted that his  administration is pained over the grievous loss of lives and properties occasioned by the carnage of insurgency and other forms of criminality in the country. “I wish to assure Nigerians that we will not rest until all criminal elements and their sponsors are brought to justice. Government is boosting the capacity of our security agencies through recruitment of more personnel, training and procurement of modern equipment, enhancement of intelligence gathering as well as boosting their morale in the face of daunting challenges, “ the president stated. He also pointed out that the second primary object of this Administration is to fight corruption headlong, reiterating that “if we don’t kill corruption, corruption will destroy the country”. Buhari observed that three years into his administration, Nigerians and the international community have begun to applaud his policies and determination to fight corruption. His words: “ We are more than ever before determined to win this war, however hard the road is. I therefore appeal to all well-meaning Nigerians to continue to support us in this fight. “Various policy measures already put in place to stem the tide of corrupt practices are yielding remarkable results”. The president hinted that in few days to come, many promising young Nigerians will join him to sign into law the “Not Too Young to Run” Bill. Buhari said his administration has also focused on revamping the ailing economy it inherited in 2015, adding that in 2016, ths government executed an expansionary budget and developed the Strategic Implementation Plan. He stated: “For the first time, 30% of the budget was earmarked for capital expenditure which represents an upward review when compared with the 2015 budget. The SIP was followed by the development of a comprehensive medium term plan – the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan 2017 – 2020. “My dear country men and women, as we all celebrate our democratic experience, let us resolve to avoid hatred and intolerance; we can only achieve our objectives in an atmosphere of harmony and peaceful co-existence”. On the 2019 general election, he said, “Finally, the up-coming months will usher us into another season of general elections. “Let me use this opportunity to urge us all to conduct ourselves, our wards and our constituencies with the utmost sense of fairness, justice and peaceful co-existence such that we will have not only hitch free elections but also a credible and violence free process”. Meanwhile, speaking yesterday at a lecture to mark this year’s Democracy Day in Abuja, Buhari commended Nigerians for not allowing themselves to be overcome by hard times. He noted that weak governance is often at the core of rising inequality and unequal development, resulting in social disruption and political unrest with negative impacts on growth and development. He said, “We have experienced rough times, but through good governance we have not allowed ourselves to be overawed by the existing of challenges. “Accordingly, we have engaged in several rounds of dialogue and town hall meetings targeted at peace building between the aggrieved and in some cases warring factions and communities. We have worked hard to dialogue with, and, if they turn unreasonable, decimate insurgents in various parts of the country. According to him, the nation is  still grappling, but successfully, with border disputes and restoring the much needed peaceful co-existence amongst the  people and neighbouring countries. He noted that the rebuilding of the North East was ongoing in order to return internally displaced persons to their ancestral homes. The administration’s resolve to fight corruption, according to Buhari,  was informed by the realisation that reducing corruption and ensuring the effective and just utilisation of public resources were crucial to achieving sustainable growth and development in Nigeria. He further noted that corruption was at the root of most of the development challenges the country has faced, saying there can be no progress in any facet of the country’s national life unless corruption is curbed. Ethnicity, Religion Threatening Nigeria’s Democracy – IBB Former military president, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, yesterday painted a sordid picture of how politicians have polarized Nigeria along ethnic and religious lines under the current democratic dispensation. Specifically, he said conduct of politicians in polarising Nigeria along ethnic and religious line is worrisome. In statement to mark the 18th democracy day in Minna, IBB, as he is fondly called, noted that political parties since May 29, 1999 have no distinct ideologies, adding that instead, what the parties face is internal squabbles and cross carpeting that is not healthy to a true Democracy. Babangida said, “Let me reiterate my resolve as a Nigerian to the unity and indivisibility of our dear nation, which our founding fathers struggled to gain from the British colonial rule. “As we celebrate Eighteen years of democracy in our country, Democratic Governance has been polarized along divisive ethnic and religious lines. It is indeed worrisome that active politicians are not adhering to the rule of the game of politics. “It is high time we looked once more on the need to build a unique two party structures in the country at this critical period of electioneering year. Our journey to Nationhood and Democracy from 1960 to date has been characterized by upheavals and turbulences, yet we must cherish our commitment to remain a united country, in brotherhood and respect for one another” “We must also appreciate the strength and value of our diversity, with due understanding and recognition of the interests of various ethnic nationalities in our hearts”. The former Nigerian leader observed that, while Nigeria has had its share of conflicts and political instability, just like many other nations and states, the country has always survived against all odds. The former military president stated that in the efforts to promote and protect democratic institutions, the roles and sacrifices of the Armed Forces in the checkered history of nation building should not be forgotten. “Therefore, it would be in our own interest to look for solutions to the problems confronting us as a nation. In whatever circumstance we find ourselves, we must continue to exercise democratic tenants which promote freedom and respect of one another,” IBB declared While saluting the resilience of Nigerians in adopting democratic structures across the three-tiers of government for an uninterrupted period of eighteen years, he expressed hope that the general elections next year will further consolidate democratic governance, freedom and security in the country. NLC Blames Politicians For Nation’s Woes Also, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) yesterday blamed politicians for the economic and political morass the country is currently enmeshed in, saying democracy has served the political class and not the average Nigerian. It noted that Nigeria’s 18 years of democracy has come with very sparse rewards for the Nigerian people. The Congress, in it Democracy Day message signed by its President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, said this year’s celebration should be like no other as it should not be devoted to false homage to democracy. He said instead, it should be devoted to soul-searching and truth telling so that with commitment from all and sundry, Nigeria can get it right. Wabba said in NLC’s view, 18 years is long enough a time to ask how much progress the country has made in its democratic journey. “The truth is that 18 years of democracy has come with very sparse rewards for the Nigerian people”, he stated. He stated further that while Nigerians celebrate democracy’s irreplaceable gift of freedom, liberty and popular representation, the truth remains that politicians did not help democracy to flourish. The NLC president said, “Unfortunately, those we elected to serve as democratic leaders have not only turned around to serve themselves but continue to exploit every given opportunity to turn the rest of us into paupers in our own land. “Beside the frequent unlawful dipping of fingers into the public till, everything including salaries, pensions, perquisites, ways and means are skewed in their favour to the exclusion of workers. “This certainly makes a mockery of the very essence of democracy which is service to the people and for the benefit of the common good.” Wabba said for Nigerian workers, a democracy that does not allocate resources in such a manner that ensures equity, justice and sustained national development or cohesion is beggarly. He continued: “We reason that Nigerian workers are frequently turned into canon fodder by the Nigerian political elite in their high stakes political games and mindless  scramble for the commonwealth. “Despite escalating costs of living, devaluation of the Naira and general hardship in the land, the Nigerian worker is still forced to survive on N18,000 as minimum wage with not a few states owing backlog of salaries and pensions. “While Pensioners in not a few states wallow in misery and unimaginable suffering, the members of the political elite led by state governors as a matter of ‘law’ and policy, take in advance whopping severance packages to which they are not entitled in the first place.” Wabba further stated that bad roads, poor electricity supply, schools and health facilities have become sorry relics of what they used to be in the first decade post-independence. He also said the spate of killings, general wave of violence and insecurity across the country have further traumatised the hapless citizenry, stressing that in spite of the great effort by the Buhari administration to fight corruption, corruption keeps fighting back more viciously. Wabba urged Nigerians to demand accountability from their leaders, noting however that despite the inability of the nation’s democracy to put on the table of Nigerians their expectations, it still remains the best form of government. Nigeria’s Democracy Still Fragile – Dogara On his part, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, yesterday observed that Nigeria’s democracy is still fragile despite the country’s return to civil rule 19 years ago. The Speaker also warned political office holders too desist from actions that could truncate the nation’s nascent democracy. Dogara who made these known in Abuja at the 2018 Democracy Day Lecture, however, noted that Nigerians have every reason to celebrate almost two decades of civilian rule. A statement signed by his special adviser on media and public affairs, Mr Turaki Hassan, quoted the Speaker as saying the beauty of democracy gives hope for a better future to the people. He however cautioned that democracies world over hardly die in the hands of people with guns but in the hands of civilians leaders who have dubious allegiance to democratic norms and values. According to the Speaker, while elections have sometimes produced enemies of democracy, citizens must be eternally vigilant in order to protect and defend the country’s hard-earned democracy. He further stated that only consensus and compromises that drive the wheels of democracy, even as he urged those who hold levers of power to resist the temptation of sliding into dictatorship. His words: “It is a great privilege for me to stand before you on this auspicious day of marking what the freedoms associated with democracy means to us. I want to particularly thank Mr. President for deciding that we invest this day in celebrating those who made the sacrifice to bring us here, and what we have been able to as a nation use this opportunity to achieve. “I believe he will be marking his third year in Office by tomorrow. As it is said in Hausa: the song is sweeter to listen to from the mouth of the composer. I believe he will be able to tell us as a nation what these three years as system has meant to us. Any generation that has gone to sleep would have awaken to the rude shock that the Courts and other democratic institutions have been weaponized against them, and as much they have become subjects, instead of citizens, where obeisance to the government is demanded as against the government fearing the people. “That must not be the case with our own democracy, and for us to ensure that our democracy survives, we have to be eternally vigilant”. PMB Has Strengthened Democracy, APC Insists But the All Progressives Congress (APC) disagreed that the country’s democracy is still wobbling, saying the Buhari administration has improved on the nation’s democracy. In a statement to mark the 2018 Democracy Day, APC added that the journey has not been easy since the inception of democracy in 1999. The governing party said, “We have conducted successive elections and have continually improved on the transparency and credibility of our electoral systems. “Remarkably, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has continued in the country’s proud tradition of being a bastion of democracy in the sub-region and across the world, as seen in the current administration’s lead intervention in ensuring representative governance and peaceful transition of power in the Gambia. “On this momentous occasion, we should congratulate ourselves on the strides we have made in our political journey as a country since independence. For one, military rule is now distant memory in Nigeria”. APC urged Nigerians to work collectively to improve the nation’s democracy because regardless of its imperfections, democracy remains the best form of government that can best serve their. “As a Party in government, our commitment to address our current challenges, which find expression in the economy and security, remain unshaken. We urge all Nigerians to continue to pray and support the current administration’s effort to build a peaceful and greater nation”, it noted. APC-UK Commends Buhari-led Government The All Progressives Congress (APC) United Kingdom chapter, has commended the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for its efforts to fast-track the nation’s development. Mr Ade Omole, the leader UK chapter of the party, gave the commendation in an interview  in Abuja. Appraising the President’s three years in office, Omole said ”only a genius can proffer solutions and address all challenges facing a society.” According to him, the APC-led government is delivering unique solutions to serious challenges facing the country. Omole said this prompted him to offer to pay for the President’s Expression of Interest and Nomination forms to recontest the 2019 presidential election, adding that his decision was driven by reality of performance on ground. He said the UK chapter of the APC was interested in the wellbeing of Nigeria and its citizens in all facets, adding that it would do everything possible to achieve this. “We care about the future of our great nation, the future of our children, and the quality of life of all. “The idea is to enable him complete his infrastructure development for the country as well as consolidate on the achievements of his administration in the last three years. “He deserves a second term and we are delighted that he has decided to recontest, and we shall fully support his bid. “I strongly believe that President Buhari has done more than expected by most Nigerians, considering the situation in the country before he assumed office in 2015. “This APC-led government is making steady progress, especially in the areas of economy, tackling insecurity and corruption, power and transportation,´´ Omole said. According to him, Buhari’s approach to the country´s economic and security problems are sustainable and long-lasting, adding that beyond the support of Nigerians, he has the support of the international community. He maintained that Nigerians abroad were united in protecting the milestones achievement of President Buhari’s government in the last three years. Omole, however, added that those that may want to criticise the administration and accuse it of under-performing, should evaluate it against the background of the challenges it faced since coming into office in May, 2015. He noted that as a former military officer, Buhari had worked ceaselessly to restore the morale of the Nigerian Military by re-organising and equipping the institution. Omole said that the President had also ensured continued peace in the Niger Delta through consistent funding of the Federal Government’s  Amnesty Programme for ex-militants. He pointed out that Buhari had also introduced improved mechanism for the distribution of aids to Internally Displaced Persons Camps in the North-East through the establishment of the Special Intervention Programme of the Federal Government’s door-to-door strategy. According to him, this is a glowing example of what it is to be a Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces. He said l that Buhari had also implemented the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) to aid economic recovery. ´´He has expended tremendously on capital infrastructure projects nationwide and has ensured effective implementation of the Treasury Single Account, and increased government revenue by over N3 trillion in the last three years. ´´He has also entrenched transparency and accountability in the system and has ensured the implementation of the Bank Verification Number (BVN) system,´´ he said. The APC chieftain said the Buhari-led government was also tackling corruption by plugging loopholes for siphoning public funds as well as tracking illicit funds through multiple accounts. He said the government had within the period, been able to address issues of ghost workers, especially in the Civil Service, while looting of public funds was no longer the order of the day. ´´In order to ensure the ease of doing business in Nigeria, he signed into law two Bills, the Secured Transactions in Movable Assets Act, 2017, otherwise known as Collateral Registry Act, 2017, and the Credit Reporting Act, 2017. ´´The Bills facilitate access to more affordable credit for Nigerians, fast- tracks budget submissions and promotes Made-in-Nigeria products,´´ Omole said.