The Nigeria Police Force has dismissed claims by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs’ , Senator Sabi Aliyu Abdullahi, that the IGP , Ibrahim Idris was invited to explain its efforts on curbing the spate of killing across the country, insisting he was invited to brief them on Senator Dino Melaye . The Police in a statement signed by ACP Jimoh Moshood Force Public Relations Officer of the Force headquarters in Abuja on Saturday said that the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operations was delegated by the IGP to deliver on his behalf to the Senate reports on the security situation in the country but the Senate did not allow him to brief them. The statement also said that if the Senate was sincerely interested in knowing the strategies adopted by the Police in tackling the killings in the nation, they ought not to have invited the IGP to speak on the strategies of the Force on National Television, saying that the Senate’s action was against National Security, unconventional and it negates global security practice . They argued that there is nowhere in the world where security matters are discussed on National Television, even the Senate deliberation and decision on the appearance of the IGP were done in close session. The police further said that a purported list of killings in Nigeria in 2018 by the Office of the Senate President was shocking, unfortunate and capable of worsening the security situation in the Country, saying that ‘it is mischievous and heinous to play politics with people’s lives; even if it is a soul. The statement reads, “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to media publication credited to one Sen. Sabi Aliyu AbdullahiChairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs that “IGP should stop holding on to the straw on why he refused to comply with the invitation of the Senate for him to come and explain what the Police are doing on the spate of killing across the country”. The incidents of killings in some part of the country are being addressed by the Nigeria Police Force and other security and safety agencies in the Nation. While normalcy have been restored in most of the affected areas, hundreds of suspects directly responsible for these dastardly acts have been arrested and are being prosecuted in the affected States. Also over Five Thousand (5000) prohibited firearms have been recovered from wrong hands across the Federation on the directives of the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim K. Idris, NPM, mni, in the mop-up operations currently ongoing throughout the Country.