****Says EFCC, Reps Cleared Me Former President President Olusegun Obasanjo Tuesday dared the President Muhammdu Buhari-led administration to setup an enquiry into the 16 billion power projects under his tenure as civilian president. Obasanjo stated this in a statement while reacting to a veiled reference by the Buhari-presidency that the funds was wasted because power generation didn’t improve. In the statement signed by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, Obasanjo who stated that the remarks of the president smacked of ignorance and without information added that the administration was re-echoing the unsubstantiated allegation against him by one of his predecessor. He added that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission as well as the Hon. Aminu Tambuwal-led ad-hoc committee, cleared him of any corrupt act over the power project fund. The statement said “It has come to the attention of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo that a statement credited to President Muhammadu Buhari, apparently without correct information and based on ignorance, suggested that $16 billion was wasted on power projects by “a former President”. We believe that the President was re-echoing the unsubstantiated allegation against Chief Obasanjo by his own predecessor but one. “While it is doubtful that a President with proper understanding of the issue would utter such, it should be pointed out that records from the National Assembly had exculpated President Obasanjo of any wrong-doing concerning the power sector and has proved the allegations as false. “Chief Obasanjo challenges, and in fact encourages, anybody to set up another enquiry if in doubt and unsatisfied with the EFCC report and that of the Hon. Aminu Tambuwal-led ad-hoc committee.” Obasanjo added that the issues of the power sector and the allegations against him had been addressed on many occasions and platforms, including in his widely publicised book, My Watch. He added that he exhaustively stated the facts and reproduced various reports by both the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), which conducted a clinical investigation into the allegations and the Ad-Hoc Committee on the Review of the Recommendations in the Report of the Committee on Power on the Investigation into how the Huge Sums Of Money was Spent on Power Generation, Transmission And Distribution between June 1999 and May 2007 without Commensurate Result. “We recommend that the President and his co-travellers should read Chapters 41, 42, 43 and 47 of My Watch for Chief Obasanjo’s insights and perspectives on the power sector and indeed what transpired when the allegation of $16 billion on power projects was previously made. If he cannot read the three-volume book, he should detail his aides to do so and summarise the chapters in a language that he will easily understand. “In the same statement credited to the President, it was alleged that there was some bragging by Chief Obasanjo over $16 billion spent on power. To inform the uninformed, the so-called $16 billion power expenditure was an allegation against Chief Obasanjo’s administration and not his claim. The President also queried where the power generated is. The answer is simple: The power is in the seven National Integrated Power Projects and eighteen gas turbines that Chief Obasanjo’s successor who originally made the allegation of $16 billion did not clear from the ports for over a year and the civil works done on the sites,” the statement read.