Chieftains and prominent aspirants in the just concluded Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary in Ekiti State, including Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, Mr Kayode Ojo, have promised to work with the leadership of the party to ensure its victory in the July 14 governorship election. They also promised to support the progressives’ government superintended over by President Muhammadu Buhari for the success of the party in the forthcoming poll. The duo called on other governorship aspirants that participated in the contest to bury their differences and close ranks to ensure that the candidate of the party and Minister of Mines and Steel Development Dr Kayode Fayemi wins the governorship poll in the state. Addressing journalists yesterday in Iyin Ekiti after a  meeting with his supporters from the 177 wards in the state on his next move, Bamidele said the coming election is not just about Fayemi or any other, but about the party and to rescue the people from poverty and redeeming the state economy. The former member of the House of Representative said he would work hard with other like-minds across the state to ensure that the Minister triumph in the election. He described the election as a reclamation battle to ensure the people are freed from the pangs of poverty, deprivation and bad governance. “The APC is set to give Ekiti people a new lease of life through prioritization of time-tested policies capable of transforming the economy and provision of opportunities for wealth creation, social welfare, healthy living and food security . “Dr Fayemi in the full glare of everybody had apologized to the teachers, civil servants, artisans and those who might be affected by his policies as a governor, I beg our people to accept his apologies. “We are resolved to align Ekiti State and her good people with the progressive transformation being championed by the APC-led government of President Buhari and no stoned shall be left un-turned in ensuring that this dream is achieved”, he said. Bamidele warned that the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) was already latching on the existing crack in the party to destabilize the party. “This is a calculated plot to destabilize and demonize the APC and give victory to their party in the July 14 election through the back door but I am certain that the desperate and mischievous agenda of the PDP will fail on a final note”, he said. Ojo, who polled 281 votes to place third in the primary election said he had no reason to blame Fayemi for joining the fray to contest for the governorship ticket in APC, saying it was his constitutional right. He added that he had accepted the outcome of the primary and had resolved to work with Fayemi to make the party triumph in the coming election. Ojo said he has no reason to dissent as a loyal party man, saying the party can only have a good and prosperous future if the party emerges victorious in the governorship poll. “Dr Fayemi had visited me and I have accepted wholeheartedly to work with him in the interest of our party. I believe the APC is supreme to all of us and we must not do those things that will sabotage our efforts in this coming election. “Though, I did not win the primary, but I have no regret contesting because members of APC in Ekiti are great people. I see a bright future for Ekiti APC going by the spirit of sportsmanship our people have displayed. “I have gone round and saw that our people lacked basic amenities for development. Virtually every aspect of our lives needed interventions and it is only the APC that can bring this desired change. “Other parties have been calling me to come and get the ticket but I resisted them. I will work with APC with my teeming supporters for us to win this election and I charge other aspirants to imbibe the same spirit”, he said.