Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu and other prominent members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have rejected the outcome of the just concluded local government election in Oyo State. The minister, while featuring on the Nigeria Union of Journalists Correspondents’ Chapel Guest Forum in Ibadan on Sunday, said the election did not meet the aspirations of the party and the electorates. According to him, the present administration in the state under the leadership of Senator Abiola Ajimobi had not deem it fit to conduct election in the past seven years, saying the desperation in holding local government election while the matter was still in court is unconstitutional. He said it was unfortunate that the governor’s group did not purchase forms for those who would lead the party in the state but, “they have succeeded in rushing the local government election.” While noting that the issue of the local government election was in courts in Abuja and Ibadan, the Minister expressed optimism that the courts would rubbish everything about the election. Shittu who harped on justice in resolving the crises triggered from both the local government election and the party’s congresses, disclosed that aggrieved members of the party in the state have informed the national working committee and the national leaders of the party on the need to address the political logjam before the 2019 general elections. The minister who is a governorship aspirant in the 2019 governorship election, said if there was justice and political issues resolved based on justice, it would not affect the second term presidential ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari. Reacting, the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State has said the abysmally low turn-out in Saturday’s local government election in the state was a wake-up call on the leadership of the party to intervene in the crisis rocking the party in the state and reposition it for good outing in the 2019 general elections. The Forum in the release by its Secretary, Dr Wasiu Olatunbosun, stated that the poll was a referendum on the party and the low turn-out was an indication that the party needs to be re-invigorated to stand a fair chance in next year’s elections. He said the poor turn- out is also a confirmation that the Unity Forum is the mainstay of the APC which has the capacity to mobilise members of the public to participate in elections and vote for the party. ‎“We have said it for the umpteenth time that the members of the Unity Forum constitute more than 70 per cent of the membership of the APC with a history of party loyalty, discipline and proven capacity to deliver the votes. “It was to the members of the group that the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu turned to in 2015 to secure needed votes for the second term bid of Governor Abiola Ajimobi.”