Opposition political parties in Kaduna and Oyo states have withdrawn from contesting in the local government elections to be held in the two states today. They cite irregularities by the state electoral commission in favour of the ruling party in the state. This is as the All Progressives Congress postponed the local government congress in Imo State initially slated for today. However, while 31 opposition parties, excluding the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), withdrew from the vote in Kaduna State, only one party, the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) announced its boycott of the exercise in Oyo State. In Kaduna State, a coalition of 31 opposition political parties has vowed to boycott the local government election scheduled for today over alleged planned rigging by the state electoral body in favour of ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). However, the main opposition party in the state, the PDP said it would participate in the polls. The state PDP chairman and one-time minister of state for aviation, Hon. Hassan Hyet said though the party aligns with all the positions of the coalition on the alleged plans to rig the elections, it is not enough to boycott the elections. Hyet said even though his party did not have confidence in the state independent electoral commission, it had enough confidence in the electorate, who, he said, were ready to kick out the APC government. He however called on the electorate to disregard the insinuations that PDP was also boycotting the local government elections. “We want electorate to come out en masse and vote for PDP in all the elective positions,” he said. The coalition had accused the State Independent Electoral Commission (KAD-SIECOM) of a grand plan to disenfranchise the electorate and rig the LG election following its failure to display the voters’ register at polling units for voters to confirm their names and eligibility to vote in good time. State chairman of Labour Party and chairman for the coalition, Umar Ibrahim Mairaqumi, who led other political party leaders to the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in Kaduna yesterday, alleged that KAD-SIECOM had deliberately refused to use the INEC card reader machine for authentication of voters during the election slated to hold between 8am-4pm today. He said, “There is a plan to rig the election already. We have conducted primaries before now, but with what we have heard and seen, we have no option than to boycott the election because we are in the know of a grand plan to rig in favour of APC. “We have seen the card reader; we have seen what it can do. We have said it should be used for the election to ensure transparency. Electronic voting machine is only representing the ballot box and ballot paper. It does not capture voter’s register. “What that means is that anybody can just go and vote because there would not be any register to confirm whether his name is there or not.” …Oyo Votes In LG Election As Socialist Party Boycotts Polls Residents of the Oyo State are expected to file out today to elect local government chairmen and councillors into the 33 local government areas and the 35 local development council areas in the state. The election, which comes seven years into the tenure of Governor Abiola Ajimobi, is aimed at ensuring democratic governance at the grassroots level. Meanwhile, the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) has announced its withdrawal from participating in the government elections in Oyo State. Announcing the SPN’s withdrawal from participating in today’s poll at a press conference held at the NULGE hall in Ibadan, the chairman of the party’s campaign for the election, Comrade Kolapo Oladapo described the election as “nothing but nullity”. Oladapo declared that with the situation on ground concerning the local government elections, it was glaring that SPN participation in the exercise would amount to a total waste. According to him, as at the time of the press conference, the “party and its candidate are yet to be given a copy of electoral areas recognised by INEC upon which the election is expected to be conducted. “Our candidate has not also been given a nomination form less than 48 hours to the election. Even if the nomination form is given today, there is yet to be any information as to the polling units where the election is meant to hold. “It is in the light of this consideration that we of SPN publicly dissociate ourselves and the party from the May 12 poll which is going to be nothing but a nullity!” he said. Oladapo faulted the creation of new wards by OYSIEC, saying it will be wrong for OYSIEC to go on with the council election on the basis of the electoral wards it had created. “This is because the Constitution does not empower the OYSIEC to create electoral area in which the LG election is meant to be held. “Section 4 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) is so clear of the powers of the SIEC, which is to organise, undertake and supervise all elections to local government councils within the state,” he said Notwithstanding, the Oyo State government disclosed that local government elections will hold today as scheduled, saying that there will be restriction on movement between 8am and 3pm. The Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Mr. Oluseun Abimbola said that the supposed legal impediment towards the conduct of the election had been vacated as a Federal High Court in Ibadan yesterday struck out the suit filed by some persons from Eruwa against Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) and others, challenging elections into newly created wards in Oyo State. Abimbola said that in the suit FHC/IB/CS/47/2018 (Olugbenga Adeyemi & Others V INEC, OYSIEC and OYSG, the presiding judge, Hon. Justice Abdul Malik, of the Federal High Court in Ibadan, held that the subject matter of this suit is clearly on the powers of OYSIEC being challenged by the plaintiffs, and not the powers of INEC joined as a federal agency. “She agreed with the submissions of the Oyo State Attorney General, Oluseun Abimbola, Esq, that the joinder of a federal agency will not automatically confer jurisdiction on the court if the subject matter contested is outside the jurisdiction of the Court. “The court then held that the suit was not for the Federal High Court, but for the State High Court and, accordingly, struck out the suit in its entirety along with any previously made orders,” Abimbola explained. It will be recalled that the court had earlier given an order restraining defendants from using the new ward delineation for the elections. That order was equally vacated. With this ruling, the coast is clear for the polls meant to choose chairmen and councillors in all local government councils, Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) and their constituent wards. It was gathered that seven different registered political parties in the state have declared their readiness to participate in the local government election in the state. The parties, under the auspices of the Conference of the Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP), also called on security agencies to ensure a peaceful atmosphere during the election. The political parties are: Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), Unity Democratic Party (UDP), African Peoples Alliance (APA), People for Democratic Change (PDC), Young Political Party (YPP), Action Democratic Party (ADP) and Justice Must Prevail Party (JMPP). In a statement signed by Publicity Secretary of the Oyo State chapter of the CNPP, Dr. Smart Afolayan, the political parties urged all the people of the state to come out en masse to vote in the local election today. The political parties maintained that they decided to participate in the election after the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) dropped the charge of N150,000 and N100,000 for chairmanship and councillorship nomination forms respectively. The statement reads: “As we have no other state we can call our own, we are thus saddled with the responsibility of maintaining peace and ensuring that the election is peaceful and devoid of rancour and disruption from any quarters. “We call on all security agencies to ensure a peaceful atmosphere that will facilitate a free and fair local government election in the state devoid of rancour and bloodletting”. Also, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will today hold the local government congress at the party’s secretariat along Oke-Ado, Ibadan. The state government has warned groups and individuals against activities capable of disrupting today’s local government election and party congresses, saying that security operatives had been put on red alert to ensure the peaceful conduct of both exercises. The government said that necessary security arrangements have been put in place to protect lives and property and to ensure that residents exercise their franchise without let or hindrance. “The government is using this opportunity to caution all political parties, including APC and their followers, against any act of violence before, during and after the local government election and party congresses. The full weight of the law will be visited on troublemakers without discrimination,” it warned. Meanwhile, the APC Unity Forum has cried out over an alleged plan to disrupt the smooth conduct of the APC local government congress slated for today in the state by elements loyal to the state governor. APC Postpones Imo Congress Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has postponed today’s local government congress in Imo State pending receipt of the Appeal Committee’s report on the ward congress conducted in the State. The Imo State governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, met with the national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and other members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) where the decision was reached. According to the national chairman who confirmed the development, a new date for the local government areas congress will be announced in due course. “ Yes, the party has shifted the Local Government Congress in Imo pending the report of the Appeal Committee”, Odigie-Oyegun said.