The Association of Bureau de Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), has described the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) directive for Bureau de Change operators to buy $20,000 three times a week as unreasonable and unachievable. The CBN had, at the weekend, directed banks to sell and buy foreign exchange to travellers and made it compulsory for Bureau de Change operators to buy $20,000 three times a week. Acting director, corporate communications, Isaac Okorafor, told LEADERSHIP in an interview that the CBN, having grown the reserves, took the step to further boost liquidity in the system. He said the CBN would take strict sanctions against any BDC or bank that fails to comply. However, the president of ABCON, Aminu Gwadabe, has said compelling BDCs to buy forex three times a week without clarifying price and putting into consideration other issues such as timing was unfair. Noting that increasing liquidity into the system now is timely, he said the apex bank should clarify at what price banks and BDCs would sell to customers. Presently, banks buy dollars from the CBN at N358 and are expected to sell at N360 while BDCs who buy at N360 are expected to sell to customers at N362 to the dollar. The CBN had directed banks to ensure that travelers, both customers and non-customers, upon presentation of relevant, valid travel documents such as visa and ticket, have immediate access to forex over the counter. Gwadabe, speaking with LEADERSHIP, said making it compulsory for BDCs to buy three times a week as funding accounts on Friday would be difficult and not clarifying if BDCs could return unsold dollars. Okorafor however said the apex bank would be able to sift out operators who took BDC licenses but have been sabotaging the system. He also noted that CBN staff, including the governor, would from this week embark on a slot check of various bank branches to ensure compliance. The CBN had on Saturday night issued a circular mandating all deposit money banks in the country to “buy and sell foreign exchange to travelers, both customers and non-customers, upon presentation of relevant, valid travel documents such as visa and ticket over the counter. All travelers shall be attended to immediately at the banks’ counters. Any contravention shall be sanctioned by the CBN. “All BDCs shall henceforth access forex from the CBN on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. It is compulsory that all BDCs access forex at least three times weekly. Any BDC that fails to access the forex window at least three times weekly shall have its licence reviewed by the CBN,” the circular read in part.