LEADERSHIP Newspaper director, human resources and admin, Solomon Nda Isaiah at the weekend bagged the Redeemed Christian Church Of God, Jesus Embassy, Apo, Abuja, ‘’Media Personality of the Year Award.’’ The provincial pastor, RCCG, Pastor Mr Sola Olukoya, who hailed him for his exceptional leadership and tireless efforts in addressing and raising awareness about the church activities, urged him not to relent in promoting the gospel of Jesus Christ. He also appreciated the efforts of other awardees and encouraged them to make impact in people’s lives bidding them God guidance and protection. The event also sought to empower widows and youths, as they were presented with brand new grinding machines, welding machines and cash gifts of a hundred thousand naira. The programme which was entitled: ‘’Christ in You the Hope of Glory’’ called on all to embrace the peace and mercy of Christ, imbibe the Christlike way and live in peace with all men. Pastor Mrs Titi Olukoya noted that when Christians live in peace the blessings of God would reign upon the country. The programme was a regal sight as all the attendees was gaily dressed to honour the family and friends who was awarded at the church. The event which was well attended brought together friends and organizations that had supported the church in one or the other. Speaking with one of the widows Mrs Susan Malachi who could not express her joy enough, in an emotion laden voice, appreciated the church, saying, “Since my husband died, things have not been easy for me, I was about going to collect a loan from the bank, but God proved to me that he is indeed the husband to the widows.” Polycarp Shikmuut an awardee expressed his surprise at the awards saying, “I did not expect to be called up to receive an award, I am indeed elated for this recognition and appreciation. It serves to encourage one to keep doing good.” The event which was all about showing love and appreciation to all, climaxed with giving succor to some widows in the church.