The Christian Association of Nigerian (CAN) has announced the death of its General Secretary, Rev. Musa Asake, who died today, 11 May, 2018, after a brief illness. In a statement signed by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant, on Media and Communications to the CAN President, Rev Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, Asake was born on 15 September, 1952 in Ung/Rimi Bajju- Kafanchan of Zango Kataf local government council. According to the statement, Rev. Asake last official assignment was the Press Conference he addressed few days ago on the incessant killings in the country, where CAN called on Christians to embark on a peaceful protest with a view to waking up the federal government with the security agencies to its constitutional responsibilities. Rev. Asake was between 1999 and May 2005, the General Secretary of the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA), with its headquarters in Jos, Nigeria and he was a pastor and teacher, conference speaker and counselor, rose to the office with a wealth of family, educational, academic, pastoral, teaching, education and church administration, cross-cultural, national and international, government and political experiences. In the statement, Rev. Asake started his pastoral career as an assistant and senior pastor at the ECWA Church, Unguwar Rimi, Bajju, his hometown in Zangon Kataf Local Government of Kaduna State in 1976. “In 1996, he became the pastor-in-charge of ECWA Headquarters Church in Jos on completion of his doctorate degree in philosophy, PhD at the Dallas Theological Seminary, Dallas, Texas, USA with specialization in Bible Exposition. Between 1976 and 2012, the new CAN General Secretary pastored at three different churches and lectured part-time at Jos Theological Seminary (JETS). “He was a member of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) between 1999 and 2005, Dr. Asake served as chairman and member of several Christian boards and governing councils, like the Plateau State Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board where he was chairman between 2003 and 2005. He served as a member of the Board of Trustee, ECWA Bingham University and became chairman, Ministers Development Initiative (MDI), Jos, Nigeria. “Dr. Asake who lived in North America for 10 years had travelled to countries like the UK, Germany, India, Singapore, Thailand, South Africa, Ethiopia and Zambia for various ministries, conferences and seminars, including church-based leadership development seminar, Ames, Iowa, USA; United Nations Aid Summit 2002; SIM ECWA Related Churches Consultation in London, Ethiopia and South Africa and Haggai Institute on Leadership in Singapore in 2007. “He is survived by wife, children, (biological and spiritual), brothers and sisters among others. May God console and comfort his immediate family, the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), friends, and other well-wishers. The burial ceremony to be announced later,” he stated.