In a bid to avoid a repeat of the Chibok and Dapchi schoolgirls’ abduction, President Muhammadu Buhari has restated the commitment of his administration to provide adequate measures of safety and security in schools. In his Children’s Day message to Nigerian children, President Buhari noted that as a responsible government, his administration was committed to ensuring that children are protected from violence and exploitation. He pointed out that since its inception in May, 2015, his administration has also focused attention on addressing issues of child protection, participation and survival. Buhari recalled that the campaign to end violence against children was launched in 2015 and commemorated in 2016, adding that in November 2016, the Campaign to End Child Marriage was also launched to ensure that as many children as possible are able to fully enjoy their childhood and be protected from all the challenges associated with early family life. These campaigns, according to him, have been reinforced with sensitisation campaigns in some states of the federation. He said, “The theme for this year’s celebration “Creating Safe Spaces for Children: Our Collective Responsibility” is an opportunity to promote the safety and security of our children. “As a responsible government, we are committed to ensuring that children are protected from violence and exploitation against them, and that their environments are safe enough for them to pursue their educational attainments, discover their full potential to grow into responsible citizens. “This Administration has made giant strides in the protection of the rights of the Nigerian child, and as a result of such efforts, Nigeria has been declared a Pathfinding Country on Ending Violence Against Children. “This I believe is a collective achievement and I urge us to continue to build on the present momentum to achieve the targets of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).” He added that in the efforts to protect children from abuse, exploitation and trafficking as well as provide safe, non-violent inclusive and effective learning environment in schools, the administration had directed the management of all Federal Government Colleges and advised all state-owned and private schools across the country to provide adequate measures of safety and security for their students. President Buhari  called on the families, security agencies, traditional rulers, religious leaders, civil society organisations, human rights activists, and the society in general to rise up and take urgent and decisive actions to stem the unacceptable rising cases of violence against  children. He emphasised that  we must ensure safety of our children in homes, schools, markets, worship centres, on the streets and everywhere at all times. Furthermore, Buhari  appealed to parents not to relent in their efforts to send their wards to school, especially the girl-child as her education reduces infant and maternal mortality, prevents early marriages, and reduce poverty. He recalled the saying that to educate a woman is to educate the nation, saying it is very apt in this regard. While appreciating the security agencies for their efforts so far, Buhari  urged them to redouble their efforts in protecting children from danger and violence in line with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Child Rights Acts, 2003. Buhari noted that one of the cardinal objectives of this Administration is the provision of quality education to  children as a fundamental foundation of economic and social development. In this regard, Buhari  said his administration had recorded measurable success in the home grown school feeding programme as it had continued to expand. The president continued: “Our children are our future, and the initiatives that come from them give confidence that our country has a bright future. “I am always inspired and encouraged when I remember encounters I had with three of our young ones.  When I was on medical vacation in 2017, three year old Maya Jammal recorded a prayer for my recovery, which went viral online. “Also, 10 year old Aisha Aliyu Gebbi wrote a personal letter to me, describing herself as my “biggest fan. Nicole Benson, then 12 years old, had contributed N5,700.85 to my campaign in 2015.  The money was all saved up from her lunch and pocket allowance. There are millions of such children nationwide.” He stated that he was very impressed by what children had been able to do, and what the future holds for them, saying it was one of the reasons his administration was committed to the school feeding programme, to prepare a future generation of physically and intellectually robust children. At the last count, he said, over 8.2 million children in 24 states of the Federation are being given free meals daily and this happens in 45,000 schools round the country. The president  called on all stakeholders to support this programme to ensure that all the 36 states of the federation and the federal capital are covered, saying this will promote substantially higher enrolment levels in schools.