Following the  All Progressives Congress (APC) congresses across the country, the APC Aqida, a group formed by some gubernatorial aspirants in Katsina State   has threatened to leave the party, describing the congresses as   despicable and outrageous. In a press statement, signed by the chairman of the group, Senator M.T Liman,  Dr Usman Bugaje, Alhaji Sada Ilu and Senator Sadiq Yar’ Adua, the politicians said they could not continue with a ruling party that lacks order and discipline. According to the group, “The APC congress is a national disgrace to the citizens of the country, both at home and abroad. Many lives were lost and many more were maimed in an exercise that is supposed to elect leaders of a party that claimed to not only bring change but pledged that change begins with it. “In Katsina state, which is the primary constituency of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a president that has been sold to many as an embodiment of honesty and integrity, forms were not sold to many who wanted to contest, this in itself was not surprising because they jubilated the attempts of the party to extend its tenure unconstitutionally.This exclusion has been the hallmark of party from its inception. Only in Daura, Sarkin Yara wards were there semblance of elections. In all others it was a sham. “Actually, what happened in Katsina during this last congresses is a confirmation of all our fears that democracy, when taken over by  group of people who have lost their conscience and sense of shame, can only be  scandalized and the party dragged into disrepute making it look worse than the very party the APC loved to condemn.” The group said, “We wrote complaints to the national headquarters to no avail.  This has implications and repercussions beyond Katsina considering its special status as the state of the president of the ruling party.” It added, “This is exactly why we formed the APC Aqida group within the party to push for integrity, equity and respect or processes and procedures. Since it did not appear that the party at both state and national level cared about this integrity, we of the Katsina Aqida wish to condemn these exercises and the APC Katsina for tarnishing the image of our people. The group said it had waited patiently to see that the party reorganised itself and bring order and sanity, but to no avail. “We must finally make the important point that as citizens we have options and will not remain in a party which has chosen to ignore all appeals to decorum and due processes and make impropriety its default mechanism and has no shame in perpetrating all manners of illegalities,” it said.