Following the alarm raised by Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, that the materials especially the result sheets for the conduct of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ward congresses in the state could not be found in the state as at Saturday night, the party’s leadership has cleared the air, saying that the exercise went on successfully and peacefully across the state. Okorocha in a press release signed by his chief press secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, had alleged that the national organizing secretary of the party, Osita Izunaso, and secretary of the convention committee, Ben Uwajumogu, connived with the chairman of the state congress committee, Chief Ini Okorie, to hijack the congress materials, thus not allowing the congress to hold as expected. But the state APC chairman, Chief Hilary Eke, and the national secretary of APC convention Committee, Senator Ben Uwajimogu, at a press conference, yesterday declared that the congresses across the 305 wards in the state was conducted and concluded successfully and peacefully on Saturday, May 5, 2018. “The party salutes the commitment, passion, dedication and above all, the peaceful and diligent comportment of our party members during the congress. The party is also grateful to the maturity and candour of the Ward Congress Committee who remained unwearied and focused in spite of the desperate efforts of the State Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha to hijack the committee through blackmail, intimidation and groundswell financial inducement. “By the outcome of the congress and the spontaneous outpouring of family love and conviviality, the party and their numerous supporters who had for long longed for extrication from the stronghold of one man and his family have been vindicated. “We re-affirm our unalloyed loyalty to the National Working Committee and state leadership of the party. We can now assure Nigerians that Imo APC is more than ever before poised to demonstrate that APC in Imo State and indeed in the South East is a popular party which in the past has been misconstrued due to the antecedents of one man”. In another development, Governor Okorocha has ordered the arraignment of members of the congress committee over the missing sensitive materials for the ward congresses. He also charged the Commissioner of Police, Chris Ezike, to ensure the arrest and prosecution of Mr ini okori who is allegedly at the centre of the story of the missing materials. “Following the missing of the Sensitive materials for the Saturday, May 5, 2018 Ward Congresses of All Progressives Congress, APC, in the State, the governor and Chief Security Officer of the State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha has directed the Commissioner of Police in the State, Mr. Chris Ezike to charge members of the Congress Committee arrested in connection with the missing materials to Court without delay preferably on Monday, May 7, 2018. The governor also charged the Police in the State to set every machinery in motion for the arrest and prosecution of the man at the Centre of the ugly incident, Mr. Ini Okori, who escaped at the residence of the National Organizing Secretary of APC, Chief Osita Izunaso”. “The governor equally expressed regret over the dishonourable role of Senator Izunaso who was not able to divorce his local and personal political interests or pursuits from his official responsibilities as the national organizing secretary of a National Party like APC. The governor noted that if not that he played his role as a governor and as a father, to manage the situation, the unfortunate role of these people would have thrown the State into a very big crisis which nobody would have been in a position to imagine its outcome”. According to him, it was despicable for Izunaso to be arguing with Mr. Ini, originally sent for the conduct of the congresses, over who among them, was in custody of the congress sensitive materials in question. He added that it showed they never wanted the congress to be successful abinitio. “It is also important to point out here that those who never believed that APC had prospect at the initial stage and who called Governor Rochas Okorocha all sorts of names including Alhaji in Government House and Okoro-Hausa must not be allowed to disturb the peace of APC in the State.” The governor reiterated his appeal to members of the party in the state to remain calm and ensure peace and assured that the anomalies would be corrected and that the ward congress in the state, will hold accordingly.