In order to strengthen the group’s executive management team and sustain its strategic business growth trajectory, Africa’s foremost indigenous conglomerate, Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) has announced new appointments. In the new organisational rejig, Olakunle Alake, the erstwhile chief operating officer (COO) is now the group managing director and Dr. Adenike Fajemirokun, the group’s chief risk officer has been elevated to the office of group executive director, president’s office, where she would take on new roles in addition to her schedule as the risk officer. The management also announced the appointment of Austine Ometoruwa as group executive director, Corporate Finance and Treasury. Earlier the board of Dangote Cement announced the appointment of Cherie Blair and Mick Davies as independent nonexecutive directors. speaking on the new appointments, president/chief executive, Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, said, “It is exciting seeing a female occupy such a high position. We are gender sensitive and create equal opportunities for both male and female to get to the top. “The new ointments are to strengthen the Group’s executive management team and to consolidate on its strategic business growth trajectory,” he added. In a release to media, said, “Alake has been the chief operating officer of Dangote Industries Limited since 2007. He serves on the board of Dangote Sugar Refinery, Nascon Allied Industries, Dangote Cement and Dangote Flour Mills. “Alake’s experience spans 34 years which covers banking, management consultancy and manufacturing industries. He joined Dangote Group in July 1997 and served as its Financial Controller and Head of Strategic Services till 2001 when he was appointed to the board of Dangote Industries Limited as executive director/ Group strategist.” The statement said that Fajemirokun, a consummate risk management and Insurance specialist has over 18 years diverse experience in developing and implementing risk management strategies in financial, engineering, manufacturing and other industries. Ometoruwa is an accomplished international investment banker. Prior to joining the Dangote Group as the group executive director, Corporate Finance and Treasury, Austine Ometoruwa provided advisory services to the Dangote Group over the past 25 years in his capacity as the executive chairman of his firm, Boston Trico Capital LLC. He started his professional career as a credit analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank. He thereafter progressed to Bank of Boston as the general manager in Nigeria before moving on to Standard Bank of South Africa (Stanbic) as strategy consultant. Ometoruwan the company said “ was the first Nigerian appointed as executive director to the board of Citibank Nigeria leading its West Africa investment banking and subsequently as CEO and regional director of corporate and investment bank, Citibank, Middle East North Africa (MENA) operating in Cairo, London & New York.