Rivers State governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, yesterday raised the alarm over plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) -led federal government to assassinate him in a crowd and claim accidental discharge. This is just as the APC in Rivers State yesterday concluded its rescheduled local government congresses in the 23 local government areas of the state as directed by the national leadership of the party. Wike spoke yesterday at a thanksgiving service to mark the third year anniversary of his administration held at Living Faith Church in D-Line, Port Harcourt. The governor said, “Intelligence report available to us as this morning indicate that they are plotting to assassinate me in a crowd and claim it was accidental discharge.” He stated that the plots by the federal government will not intimidate him, as he remains committed to the defence of democracy and Rivers State. Wike who further stated that the plot will fail because God will continue to defend him said, “The level of conspiracy against Rivers State is unfortunate. Instead of focusing on governance, they focus on how to assassinate me or frame me up.” The governor alleged that the federal government through the Inspector General of Police (IGP) plotted to plant millions of dollars and AK 47 at his Abuja residence when the Police sought search warrant from an Abuja court. He noted that last week the court ruled that the Police cannot search his Abuja residence, thereby stopping them from their evil plot. Wike said, “I am not afraid of my residence being searched by the Police, but I know their evil intention.” The governor stated that the state government has come to thank God for his protection in the face of continuous plot by agents of the APC-led federal government. He said, “We are born to win, we are born to reign, we are destined for greatness.  While other states are commissioning wheel barrows, we are commissioning infrastructure.” Meanwhile, the APC in Rivers State yesterday concluded its rescheduled local government congress in an atmosphere that was described by many stakeholders as peaceful, fair and credible.