Bayelsa State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, has visited governor Nasir El-Rufai in Kaduna to support the recommendations of All Progressive Congress (APC) true federalism committee for implementations, saying restructuring portends no doom, no evil for Nigeria. Speaking with journalists at Kaduna State Government House,Governor Dickson, who commended his colleague governor El-Rufai on the far reaching recommendations of his party’s true federalism committee report, urged Nigerians to support restructuring for a fairer and more stable and sustainable Nigeria. Dickson,said restructuring must be embraced across party lines for fundamental constitutional reforms stressed that nation building is a work in progress. His words:”Few minutes ago,I commended governor El-Rufai’s commitment and courage for new Nigerian project.By Restructuring we are talking about fundamental constitutional reforms,reforms of restructuring of our country to bring about a fairer and more stable and sustainable Nigeria and all of these within the context of united, indivisible Federal republic of Nigeria. There is nothing human that is perfect. Nation building is work in progress and is actually not something that will finish by one leader,party or one government,or even by one generation. Is from one generation to another generation. Our leaders,our founding fathers gave of us this country but we cannot claim that the present structure of this country is perfect” Dickson added:”No nation is perfect,nation building therefore is continues work in progress and that is great work and contributions of governor El-Rufai’s committee even though the committee of a political party and yet the recommendations are far reaching and number of us across party lines believe that we need to advance the conversations. If you ask me What is restructuring? Restructuring simply means constitutional reforms,constitutional amendments,federalism or now we say devolution of power” “I want to use this opportunity to assure those that may not have properly understood the concept of restructuring that restructuring is not evil and portends no evil, no doom for Nigeria and that is why I support the great work the governor has done and I m here to commend him and partner” Dickson said. On his part, Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State said despite party affiliation must work together for a balance federation. El-Rufai, further said they will lobby other governors and other political leaders to advance his committee report implementation:”we must all work together,all hands must be on deck to make our country better. For me the work of APC committee on true federalism reflected that consensus among our party leaders and APC National executive committee has adopted our report and set up technical committee on the implementation. I hope that technical committee will soon report to the party so that they will send the recommendations to the government. I welcome the support we received from governor Dickson from day one and he crossed party line and he refused take the aptitude of opposition.We are talking to continue to advocate and lobby our colleagues, the governors forum and lobby other political leaders to advance the work so that we have a fair,balance federation that will be fair to everyone” El-Rufai said