President Muhammadu Buhari has adopted new measures to scale up security response to the killings in some states in the country. As part of the measures, the president yesterday approved the establishment of a new Battalion of the Nigerian Army, as well as a new Police Area Command, in Birnin Gwari local government area of Kaduna State where scores of people were killed last Saturday. The new Army Battalion and the Police Area Command, according to the presidency, are the latest in a series of law enforcement measures to ensure more effective protection of lives and property in and around Benue, Kaduna, Taraba, Zamfara and Nasarawa States. Buhari read the riot act to masterminds of the killings across the country, saying his administration would no longer tolerate the incessant massacre of innocent Nigerians. A statement by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, noted that the president who strongly condemned the latest massacre of innocent Nigerians in Birnin Gwari described the persistent killings as agenda to instigate war in the country for selfish purposes. “I am deeply outraged by this unwarranted, unprovoked and reckless destruction of lives by bandits who belong to the lowest level of civilization. I feel the pains and devastation of the families of the victims, and this administration will do everything possible to ensure we defeat these enemies of humanity”, the presidential spokesman quoted Buhari as saying. He recalled that last week the Nigerian Air Force took delivery of two new helicopter gunships for deployment to parts of the country affected by banditry. Shehu said a Quick Response Wing has also been established by the Nigerian Air Force in Taraba State, while a Joint Military Intervention Force is fully on ground in Benue. He further stated that President Buhari assured that, while security remains a priority for his government, his government will not tolerate the persistent killing of innocent people in order to set Nigerians against one another. Alleging plot to instigate another civil war in the country, Buharis said, “These persistent killings are not spontaneous; there are subterranean forces with a sinister agenda to instigate war in the country for selfish purposes. “Although unconventional war is particularly complicated, our security forces are making rigorous efforts to better understand these enemies with a view to decisively checkmating their evil attacks.” The president extended  his condolences to the families of the victims, the government and the people of Kaduna State over what he described as unfortunate tragedy, assuring that his government will never abandon them to their fate. Allegation Of Shielding Herdsmen Beer Parlour Gossip – Presidency Meanwhile, the presidency has described as beer parlour gossip, claims by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that President Buhari is behind the spate of herders/farmers clashes in the Middle Belt region of the country. In a statement by the senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the presidency said it is embarrassing that the PDP would convey an allegation from the beer parlours of Nigeria to the United Nations. Shehu said, “Regarding the accusation that President Buhari is behind the spate of herdsmen and farmer clashes in the Middle Belt of Nigeria, all we will say is that it as an embarrassing charge that the PDP would make, conveying an allegation from the beer parlours of Nigeria to an international body like the UN. “The PDP certainly has no shred of evidence to make such an allegation.  These are comments driven by tribalism and that age-old trick of balkanisation in a bid to score political points. This should not surprise anyone given the politics of anger, violence and polarisation that are the stock-in-trade of the PDP. “The various lengths to which President Buhari has gone to end the spate of killings, such as mobilising state resources against the attackers, approving the setting up of new police and army formations in the affected areas, and the recruitment of thousands into the police and other arms of the military, are a few of the several steps taken which a more reasonable opposition will acknowledge”. Wondering what President Buhari would possibly gain from the killings, the presidential spokesman noted that there is no intelligent angle from which anyone can analyse the matter and see any possible gain for Buhari-led government in the wanton destruction of lives and properties going on. For the “new” PDP leadership on the other hand, Shehu observed that they are incapable of thinking big about the nation because they “see and treat the unfortunate spate of killing of innocent Nigerians as political gift, about which they seem very happy to cite as the basis for a return to power. “They feel bad at every turn the country improves, which is beyond comprehension.  They should bury their heads in shame,” he added. The presidency further stated that the letter written by the national chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, to the United Nations Secretary-General accusing President Buhari of several allegations has confirmed the opposition party as a bad loser that is desperate for another chance after they were kicked out for failing the nation and its people. Shehu argued that a lecture on democracy and the rule of law coming from the PDP with a tradition of undemocratic rule is a desperate attempt to pervert history and the course of justice. According to him, PDP’s sermon is both trite and hollow, coming from a party with intolerance for dissent as its hallmark and a party that humiliated opposition parties and stunted their growth. The presidential spokesman stated: “The war against corruption, for which many more politicians may soon be docked, cannot be misrepresented as an attack on human rights and Mr. Secondus should not try to mislead the UN. “Nigerian politicians at all levels have been used to dispensing with state funds in whatever manner they please, and to have someone, an administration, finally saying, ‘No. It doesn’t matter how big or important you think you are; the law must come against you…’ That is not something they are used to at all. “For the PDP, as has now emerged, national security was the major source of their funding. The PDP Chairman and all other politicians against whom the country’s anti-corruption agencies have on-going investigations, should be assured that it is only a matter of time before the law catches up with them, and makes them pay for the grief their mismanagement of the past has caused, and is still causing Nigerians. Nigerians suffered because of the poison sowed by the PDP. “If the public was privy to some of the facts and figures on corruption that President Buhari and the anti-corruption agencies have, they would understand the passion that drives the determination to nail these callous men and stop them in their corrupt tracks”.