A 24-years-old man, Ajewole Dada Fulani on Friday attempted killing self after he was sentenced to life imprisonment for involvement in robbery, kidnap and rape by an Ekiti State High Court, sitting in Ado Ekiti. Ajewole was standing trial for robbing, kidnapping and raping two female students of the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti on 7th November, 2015 along Ikere-Igbara Odo Road. On the day of the incident, the convict was said to be conveying the two College students in his commercial vehicle but diverted the vehicle to the nearby bush, tied them to a tree and raped them one after the other. After escaping from the scene, the victims later reported the incident at the Ikere Main Police Station along College Road. Justice John Adeyeye while delivering the judgment held that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. After the verdict was handed down and the judgment interpreted to him by the court registrar, the convict became restless and emotional and thereafter smashed the court window and stabbed himself with a broken louvers and attempted to stab other people inside the courtroom. It took the intervention of security personnel who grabbed the convict from injuring people inside the court as he was subsequently handcuffed and bundled into a waiting Black Maria. Court workers, litigants and other observers were taken by surprise by his action. Ajewole was first arraigned at an Ado-Ekiti Magistrate’s Court but the case was transferred to the High Court after an advice from the office of Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). He appeared for the first time at the High Court on 16th November, 2016. To prove the case, the DPP, Mr. Gbemiga Adaramola, called four witnesses and tendered exhibits which included the accused’s statement and a vehicle with registration number EMR 218 XA. The accused called two witnesses to support his denial of the offence. Justice Adeyeye after listening to the oral argument of Adaramola and defence counsel, Mr. Sunday Ochayi ruled that, “The prosecution has not proved the essential ingredients of the offence of robbery against the accused. “In conclusion and for the avoidance of doubt, the accused was found guilty of the offences of kidnapping and rape as charged in Counts 1, 2 and 3 and he is accordingly convicted to life imprisonment. 