Results of Saturday’s local government elections in the 23 local government areas of Kaduna State released so far indicates that the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) won chairmanship seats in 15 out of the 23 local government areas of the state, while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was victorious in four. However, the PDP has rejected the results announced by the Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission (KADSIECOM), saying it was not a true reflection of the wishes of the electorate. The opposition party accused the state electoral body of altering the results in favour of APC. According to results announced by the returning officers, APC won in Soba, Zaria, Lere, Ikara, Makarfi, Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Kagarko, Kudan, Igabi, Kajuru and Kaduna North, Kubau, Kaduna South and Sabon Gari local government areas, while the PDP won in Zango Kataf, Kauru, Sanga and Kachia local government areas. Results were still being awaited in Jema’a and Chikun, while the results of two local governments of Jaba and Kaura were cancelled as a result of security breaches. It was gathered that a new date will be fixed for the election in the two local governments. It was gathered that returning officers from some of the local governments won by the ruling APC disappeared for hours only to reappear and announce results in favour of the ruling party. The election was characterised with late arrival of election materials while in some other areas there were hitches with the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). Some voters alleged that some of the local governments were rigged in favour of the ruling APC. Members of PDP in Kagarko local government stormed the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) with result sheets printed from the EVMs, which indicated that the PDP won but results were announced in favour of the APC. Similar complaints were made in Kajuru, Kaduna North and some local governments in the Northern senatorial district. LEADERSHIP recalls that 31 political parties boycotted the local government elections on allegations that plans had been perfected to rig the election in favour of the ruling party. At the time of filing this report, there was reported tension in Jema’a local government area where results from eight wards were being awaited. Some PDP stakeholders in the areas have threatened to take legal action if the results are declared in favour of the APC. The PDP in the state has also promised to make the results collated by their returning officers public. The party, in rejecting the final results and declaration of the APC as winner in areas believed to have been won by the PDP in the local council elections, described the action as highly provocative, fraudulent and completely indefensible. It said results at the polling centres clearly showed that the PDP defeated the APC in most of the areas where elections held across the state, including Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s ward where the PDP led with over 90 per cent of the votes cast. A statement by the national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that while the result of this election is a clear testimony of its popularity in the state, PDP rejects the fraudulent action   by Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission (KADSIECOM) in altering the results in favour of APC. It reads in part: “It is totally intolerable for KADSIECOM, working in cahoots with the discredited APC, to engage in the manipulation of the collation process by changing the figures and announcing final results that are different from figures tallied at the polling centres. “Such daylight robbery by the APC is absolutely unacceptable, particularly given the precarious security situation in the state. “We have preponderance of instances where electoral officers were whisked away to unknown destinations by agents of Kaduna State government, aided by security agencies, while fake results are being announced in favour of the APC. “For instance, while voters and party agents were still waiting for the return of electoral officer, Mr. Elisha Gandu, at the Kajuru Local Government secretariat where results from polling centres show that the PDP won nine out of the 10 wards, the Nagarta Radio was busy announcing APC as winner. “This is the situation in most of the final results so far announced by the commission and we cannot accept such. “We want the APC and KADSIECOM to note that the PDP has eyes everywhere, monitored the entire balloting processes at all levels and know directly how all the parties, including our great party, the PDP, performed in all the polling centres across Kaduna State. “Consequently, the PDP cautions the chairman of KADSIECOM, Dr. Saratu Binta Dikko-Audu, to save the state from avoidable stress by resisting the APC, withdrawing all altered final results and announcing only results that reflect the actual wishes of the people as expressed in the ballot.” PDP reminded the KADSIECOM chairman that the entire world was watching the unfolding events and that she has a chance to make history by standing “on the side of truth, justice and honour or on the side of corruption, treachery and infamy.” APC Sweeps Oyo LG Polls Meanwhile, the results released by the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) yesterday showed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) swept the local government election helds on Saturday in the state. From the results released at about 6:00pm yesterday by the commission in 29 local government areas and local council development areas, out of the total 33 LGs and 35 LCDAs where elections were held, APC candidates made a clean sweep of the chairmanship and councillorship elections. Oyo State governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, congratulated winners in the local government elections and APC local government congresses, urging them to be magnanimous in victory. Speaking on the party’s victory, the governor, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Communication and Strategy, Mr. Bolaji Tunji, said he was thrilled by the peaceful and orderly conduct of the rescheduled local government congress of the APC, which was held across the 33 local government headquarters of the state, on Sunday. He called on losers in both contests to eschew violence and to be gallant in defeat, in the realization that in every contest, including elections, there would always be winners and losers. The governor urged APC faithful across the state to be orderly and law-abiding in their conduct, while he advised those that might be aggrieved with the outcome of the LG election and APC local government congress to explore lawful channels to seek redress. “We have proved skeptics and the doubting Thomas wrong with the successful and orderly conduct of the local government election, 11 years after the last one was held. This is another defining moment in the life of our administration”, he noted.