Borno State governor, Kashim Shettima has reiterated that Boko Haram terrorists are not occupying any community or part of the state as has been claimed by those he described as enemies of progress .
Shettima noted that even though there were pockets of attacks on soft targets by the insurgents, the military and other security agencies had degraded the terrorists and so deserve unreserved commendation to motivate them towards a total restoration of peace and order in the state and the north east in general. The governor stated this yesterday when the newly appointed Acting General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division, Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Abdulmalik Bulama Biu, paid him a courtesy visit at Government House, Maiduguri. Shettima said, “As the chief security officer in Borno State, I am grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari, the military, security agencies, stakeholders and people of the state for their sustained efforts towards the fight against Boko Haram. “In the last four years, our major highways that link us with other parts of the country and the entire state was under siege, but we are proud of our president and the Nigerian Army for bringing sanity and peace to our dear state. “ I am personally saddened by some Borno opposition politicians who have relocated to Abuja, Lagos and other places during the peak of the insurgency and who are there making unnecessary noise regarding the calamities that befell us. “Instead of them to pray for us from where they relocated, they were busy raising unnecessary criticisms on us as government, but thank God that all their bad plans against this government ended up hitting the rock. “As government, our doors will always remain open for military to fraternize and see how we continue to give our maximum support and cooperation to end Boko Haram madness in our dear state,” the governor added. He therefore told the new GOC that, as a native of the area who knows every nook and cranny of the state, he should ensure that troops under his watch consolidate on the remarkable achievements recorded to end the lingering crisis. The new GOC said he was at the Government House to officially register his presence along with his lieutenants and to appreciate the governor for his continuous support to the military in the fight against the terror group. “I present myself to you and the people of the state on my preparedness to rapidly achieve the much desired peace we are all yearning for, and to seek your sustainable effort in supporting the military. I came with an open mind, ready to contribute beyond the call of my duty, Under my watch, we will continue to respect the rules of engagement so that the rights of the people will not be truncated by our sacrificial troops, as we collectively team up to end Boko Haram,” Gen Biu said.