The Police Service Commission has shortlisted a total of 133, 324 applicants for recruitment as constables to fill 6,000 spaces in the Nigeria Police Force. The exercise, which will commence on Monday, May 7 in the 36 State Police Command Headquarters and the Federal Capital Territory, will start with screening of the applicants’ physical attributes and their credentials. The commission’s spokesperson, Ikechukwu Ani, in a statement, stated that “already invitations have been sent to the applicants who are expected to report at the screening venues on days indicated in their invitations. “A total of 133, 324 applicants are expected to be screened during the exercise. Kaduna State has the highest number of applicants with a total of 6,962, while Lagos has the least with a total of 1,013. Katsina, with a total of 6,676, has the second highest number of applicants followed by Benue and Niger with 6,474 and 6,409 respectively.” The statement added that Bayelsa has the second least number with 1,097 applicants followed by Anambra with 1,117 and Ebonyi with 1,303. The Police Service Commission has deployed its staff to the 36 states of the federation and the FCT for the exercise, with chairman of the Commission, Sir Dr. Mike Okiro, as the national coordinator. Ani noted that while addressing the staff yesterday in Abuja, the secretary to the commission, Mr Musa Istifanus, warned that the commission would sanction any staff who tries to compromise this national assignment. “All staff must resist all forms of undue influence as their activities would be closely monitored,” Istafanus warned. He also warned the applicants to conduct themselves properly, adding that those unconnected with the exercise should not be found within the vicinity of the screening. …10,000 applicants jostle for 600 NDA slots – Commandant More than 10,000 candidates have applied for the 600 available admission spaces at the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Kaduna, according to the institution’s commandant, Maj.-Gen. Adeniyi Oyebade. Oyebade disclosed this yesterday when members of the Kaduna State Council of the National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) paid him a courtesy visit. He said that due to the limited admission slots, the management of the academy had always tried to ensure that only the best candidates were admitted. The commandant said the institution would not deliberately refuse to give admission to any qualified candidate who had passed the entrance examination. He reiterated the commitment of the academy to continue to partner with the media, especially members of the association, in peace building. The chairperson of the council, Mrs Juliet Oyoyo, had earlier remarked that many youths interested in seeking admission into the NDA were denied the opportunity. Oyoyo appealed to the commandant to look into the matter with a view to giving youths who applied for admission into the academy the opportunity to contribute their quota to the development of the country.