The Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has explained that Governor Rochas Okorocha’s meddlesome attitude in party administration and personalizing affairs of governance of the state were some of the reasons the party decided to pass a vote of no confidence on him. LEADERSHIP reports that the state deputy governor, Eze Madumere, Senator representing Imo North, Ben Uwajumogu, the National Organising Secretary of the party, Sen. Osita Izunaso, Sen. Ifeanyi Ararume and over 50 others in a memo to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC asked the party to call Governor Okorocha to order, vowing to resist attempts to destroy the party ahead of the 2019 general elections. This was while they submitted their petition to the NWC on behalf of the Leader of the APC stakeholders in the state, Chief Okey Ikoro who led a delegation of some of the state executives of the party to submit their letter at the APC national secretariat in Abuja Yesterday said; “In a well-attended meeting of the Imo State APC Stakeholders held on the 28th day of April 2018 at the country home of Dr. Uzoma Obiyo in Ugirike Ikeduru LGA, we the APC Leaders present unanimously passed a Vote of No Confidence on the Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha. We the stakeholders of the APC disassociate ourselves and the ImoState Chapter of APC from the ignoble policies and programmes of the Owelle Rochas Okorocha led administration which are viewed as antipeople, unpopular and retrogressive. “Imo State APC Stakeholders at the meeting agreed to wrestle back the party from one man and give it back to the people, and to initiate recall processes of some present members of Imo State House of Assembly whose actions are inimical to the progress of the state with particular reference to purported endorsement of a particular gubernatorial aspirant for the forthcoming election in the state which is outside their schedule and rules of engagement, action which has polarized the party. We also use this premise to inform the public that the actions and inactions of the present government in the state which have brought untold hardship especially to the residents of Owerri and the entire Imo State are not contained in the manifesto of APC but remains solely the decisions of Owelle Rochas Okorocha”.
The Stakeholders equally condemned what they described as “the despicable usurpation of the powers of the Party offices and officers by the state Governor, Chief Ethelbert Anayo Okorocha to himself which has portrayed the Party in the State to be part of the contemptible abuse of power and flagrant disobedience of Court Orders by the Governor. These inexcusable actions of the Governor have made the public to view our great Party with the same disdain that they view the Governor. The Stakeholders hereby demand the immediate disengagement of the Governor from the running of the Party and the separation of the Party from the pervasive and illegal acts of the Governor. “The Forum condemns and rejects the shameful and illegal use of Imo State Tax Payers money by the Governor Chief Ethelbert Anayo Okorocha to forcefully install his son in-law Mr Uche Nwosu (who is current Chief of Staff) as Governor of Imo State in 2019. The imperial style imposition of Mr Nwosu on the Party and people of Imo State by Governor Okorocha using bribery, harassment and intimidation”, they added. They further listed the sins of the governor to include destruction of private properties and markets without adequate notices or providing alternatives; forceful acquisition of lands from the natives; total refusal to pay gratuities; fraudulent handling of payment of pension; non promotion of civil servants since 2011; imposition of N3, 000 levy on men among other issues. Responding on behalf of the NWC, national chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun said the party leadership would look at the petition with a view to resolving the issues. “Imo must lead the charge in the entire south east. So, it is a painful thing to see that we are divided but I am happy that in your speech you have opened doors of unity. I want to assure you that we on our side will do everything possible to take up your complaints, your reservations so that an acceptable compromise can be reached that will make it possible for us to fight as one party. I am not unaware of the issues. I am certainly not unaware. I am a Nigerian. As party national chairman, all of these issues come to my table. There has to be unity but there cannot be unity without justice. So there must be justice”, he said.