The ranks of those seeking to contest the office of the President ahead of 2019 general elections, Yesterday swelled as the first female aspirant, Dr. Elishama Rosemary Ideh, has declared to contest against the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. Promising to bring a different style to governance predicated on workable solutions, Dr. Ideh who is seeking realise her ambition, via the platform of Alliance for a New Nigeria (ANN) promised to hit the ground running upon assumption of office. While declaring officially on Thursday in Abuja, madam Ideh, popularly known as Elishama, said Nigeria at this time needs a different model of governance, “a leader who combines integrity with intelligence and a deep and vast understanding of the implications of the 21st global economy and Nigeria’s place in it.” According to Dr. Elishama, who said she has seen faces of Nigeria’s past, present and future, added that she has strived to reach for workable solutions to problems and challenges peculiar to the time and place of each her engagement. “I am a firm believer of the values, vision and mission of this great party, and I’m committed to the actualization of its ideology and its innovative roadmap for the regeneration of Nigeria and the creation of the material and social wealth that will secure the present welfare and future security of Nigetians living today and generations yet unborn.” Elishama promised to reform the country’s revenue generation and allocation structure, including federal tax regimes if givien opportunity as president of Nigeria. “My administration is determined, from the very first day of our assumption of office, to work towards reducing the cost and simplifying the processes and procedures of doing business anywhere in Nigeria, so that local and foreign investors to thrive. “We will work together to ensure fair remuneration in terms of wages, welfare packages and retirement benefits within the limits of our means. Periodics wage increase will be carried out, not on sentiment, emotional or even humanitarian ground but always according to our production capacity and corresponding revenues,” she promised.