Following the controversies that arose from last Saturday’s gubernatorial primary election in Ekiti State, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has cancelled the process. Accordingly, the party announced Friday May 11 as the new date for the conduct of fresh primaries in the state. The party’s leadership also sacked the secretary of the primaries committee for being close to one of the aspirants even though no account of wrongdoing was leveled against him. Arriving at the decision after series of high-level meetings between Monday and Tuesday, the party barred the agents of aspirants who allegedly disrupted the process from further participating in the primary election in whatever capacity. Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, the party’s spokesman, at a press conference said, “Perhaps, more importantly is that the exercise of Saturday is cancelled and would now be conducted this Friday, 11th May, 2018. “The existing primary election committee is maintained, except the secretary who will now be substituted”. He noted that, while the committee secretary was never indicted for compromising the process, “virtually all aspirants complained that the secretary had a close relationship with one of their colleagues and so we decided to drop him in order to guard the integrity of the process and not because he was found to have compromised.” He further stated: “All identified unruly agents that participated in the suspended primary election of 5th May 2018 are disqualified from participating in the rescheduled primary as agents. “Accordingly, the following individuals are hereby disqualified from participating as agents or partaking in the rescheduled primary in whatever capacity; Ayodeji Omowaye, Rotimi Faleye, Kayode Afolabi, Oladele Ademola Samuel, Oyetunde Ojo, Akintade Olayisade and Temitope Adewumi. “All agent tags must bear the name of aspirants they represent. All agents in the rescheduled primary election are hereby barred from coming to the voting arena with their mobile phones.” Giving other decisions reached by the NWC Abdullahi said, “Security agents from other states will be mobilized to secure the venue and officials in the rescheduled election. One person would be appointed subject to the consensus of all aspirants to assist persons with disability and illiterate voters. All aspirants must not leave their sitting position unless with the approval of the primary committee “All aspirants would be held vicariously liable for the conduct of their agents. Names of the following aspirants would now be written in the following order as stated below: Ajayi Olatunji Olowo and Olubunmi Kayode. “The NWC condemn the disruptlon of the Primary of 5th May and resolved that all found culpable, directly or indirectly will be punished in accordance with the relevant provisions of the party constitution.” Fayose’ Deputy Emerges PDP Guber Candidate Meanwhile, in what turned out to be a straight fight between the incumbent deputy governor, Prof. Kolapo Isola Eleka and former Minister of State for Works, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, Governor Ayodele Fayose’s deputy has emerged the party’s candidate for the July 14 gubernatorial election in Ekiti State. Eleka defeated Adeyeye with 400 votes, polling 1,179 votes against Adeyey’s 779, while seven votes were voided. This followed the stepping down of former deputy to Fayose in his first term and the Senator representing Ekiti South senatorial district at the upper legislative chamber of the National Assembly, Biodun Olujimi, for Adeyeye. It was sweet victory for Fayose who had boasted that his deputy would emerge the party’s candidate after an across- board endorsement of Eleka late last year. Although, more than 2,000 delegates were expected to participate in the election, comprising of 1,585 statutory delegates and 547 National Ad-Hoc Committee members, only 1,968 delegates were accredited for the exercise when voting commenced at about 2:14 pm. Perhaps, learning from the All Progressives Congress (APC) botched primary last week, following the invasion of its primary election venue, there was mass deployment of security operatives at Uncle Eagle Event Centre, along Ikere-Ekiti road. Policemen, operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) took over the venue of the exercise. While stepping down for Adeyeye before the commencement of voting, Olujimi who urged her supporters to cast their votes for Adeyeye said she gave up her governorship ambition for stability, peace and progress of the PDP ahead of the July 14 governorship election.