The legend, Bob Marley, said and I quote, “you can fool some people sometimes but you can’t fool all the people all the time.’’ In a similar vein, Soren Kierkegaard says: “there are two ways to be fooled. One is to believe what isn’t true; the other is to refuse to believe what is true.’’ Though these personalities are not Nigerian, their thoughts are strongly being practised in Gombe State by selfish and vision less politicians of the likes of Dankwambo and associates. Long before the PDP primaries, lots of political pundits and astute observers of the political wave that shapes the intrigues of Gombe political activities have foretold that the PDP had an arrangement that had been scripted in favor of the duo: Governor Dankwambo and Sen Nafada, which many saw as an exchange of political shoes ahead of the 2019 dance. It is this same you-take-my-position-and-I-take-yours arrangement that led to the denial of the most popular and masses-favored, Dr Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna of the PDP gubernatorial candidate ticket. Few days after the primaries, the culminating activities of the PDP have been acting out the hidden scripts that have become open secrets to the people of Gombe who are now wiser than any time in history past. The failure of the PDP to do what is right that led to the defection of Dr Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna (JIG) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) only enfeebles the PDP chances of victory and strengthens that of the APC ahead of 2019 general elections. It can be recalled that during the PDP primaries that was disrupted by thugs, which is widely believed to be sponsored by the enemies of Gombe State, JIG was already cruising home to victory when Sen Nafada created a scene out of the proposed script by confronting Gov Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo and reminding him of their agreement before the duo went out of the hall for a clandestine meeting which later played out to have JIG denied of his mandate. As part of the same script, Muhammad Ribadu had, on 11th October 2018, relinquished his senatorial candidature to Gov Dankwambo. The truth of the matter is that this food had been cooked a long time ago but it is only being served now. Only last week, Junaidu Usman Abubakar, Senior Special Assistant on Press Affairs to Gov Dankwambo, in a publication entitled: ‘Of Political Marauders in Gombe’ ironically exposed Gov Dankwambo’s plan in a piece that was supposedly intentioned to commend his boss. He said: “I want to start by commending my boss, Gombe State governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, Talban Gombe, who has faced insistent criticism and condemnations from these envious humans for sticking and fielding one man; the PDP gubernatorial candidate in Gombe State, Senator Bayero Usman Nafada.’’ The beauty of democracy is the power of the choice of the majority in any political settings or activities. When such power is taken from the people then what is left can be anything but democracy. Pitiably, the PDP whose middle name seems democratic isn’t demoratic enough in actual practice. Junaidu Usman Abubakar said he commended his boss for ‘sticking and fielding one man’. This means that there was a plan, which the governor stuck to. It was the same Sen Nafada, who accused the Dankwambo administration in the state of favouring his friends and associates with contracts and patronage to the detriment of the good people of Gombe. Nafada made this revelation in 2015 in the run up to the 2015 general elections in the country. He said there was capital in flight in Gombe, money that was supposed to be spent in Gombe was taken to somewhere outside the state because most of the contractors working in Gombe are not of Gombe origin. And now he is bragging or saying he will continue with the works Dankwambo has started. It is only the fools that can wait to be deceived with such baseless utterances. Gombe people cannot be fooled any longer; they are wiser now. Sen Nafada has nothing to offer and the future of our state is at the verge of collapse until and only if we wake up to the clarion call and vote for a visionary leader and someone who has lots of potentials to take the state to greater heights. The fear that Dr Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, being a just and a no nonsense business man, may end up probing the financial recklessness of the present administration which is evident in the misplaced priority projects like the Gombe conference center for an agrarian state and a state where portable water isn’t available even in Gombe Metropolis as the people are now being forced to spend more on water and tanks, all in the name of taking loans to enrich their personal pockets leading to JIG’s denial of the PDP ticket by Gov Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo. So, if the PDP thinks the imposition of Senator Nafada as their gubernatorial candidate was an escape hatch to protect the current administration, they had better prepare to get legal experts to defend them in courts because the APC fight against corruption at the national level will board en- route Gombe to see to it that those who enriched their pockets through the resources of Gombe will face the music, when Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya assumes office in 2019. To this end, many across political, social and religious divides believe that Dr Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, is the true champion of democracy having stood against the injustice of imposition as orchestrated by those who think they could take the place of divinity to ascertain for the people of Gombe State the person that should be their next governor in 2019. – Sani, a public analyst, writes from Gombe.