It’s not always that these infections are sexually transmitted. Sometimes, our lady parts just go through a phase and decide to ‘overreact’. One thing for sure is that vaginal infections are very uncomfortable and even embarrassing. Generally, there are three very common vagina infections. A majority of us ladies have had at least one of these infections: Bacterial Vaginosis is caused by the overgrowth of the good bacteria in your vagina, and it’s one of the most common vaginal infections. This overgrowth affects the PH balance of the vagina, leading to inflammation and a vaginal discharge that has a fishy odor. While it’s mostly common among women in their reproductive years, it can also affect women of any age. BV can also be caused by having too many sexual partners. Things like douching can also increase your chances of getting it. The symptoms include itching of the vagina A smelly fishy vagina odor Burning sensation when urinating A thin, white, gray, or green vagina discharge. If you experience these symptoms you should visit a gynecologist for diagnosis and treatment, which mostly involves antibiotics. Perhaps one of the most common of vaginal infections. Nearly every woman has had at least one yeast infection in her life. Yeast infections are caused by the overgrowth of yeast in the vagina and this is triggered by a myriad of things ranging from taking antibiotics, douching, wearing underwear that’s not made of cotton, wearing overly tight jeans etc. Yeast infections do not last for long and can be treated using over the counter drugs however, if you’re not sure, it’s always better to get a diagnosis and treatment from a doctor. The symptoms of yeast infections include. A very itchy vagina and swelling of the vagina and vulva. Redness of the vagina Burning when urinating Cottage cheese-like thick white vagina discharge that does not smell. This is a very common sexually transmitted vaginal infection but the good thing is that it’s treatable. Women get Trichomoniasis by having unprotected sex – it’s important to note that it can also be transmitted from one vagina to another (if you swing that way). Trichomoniasis almost always, only affects the vagina and not other parts of the body. While some people get symptoms within 5-28 days of being infected, others show symptoms much later. Symptoms of Trichomoniasis include: A lot of itching, burning, redness or soreness of the vagina (It kinda looks like a strawberry) Discomfort when urinating Pain during sex can also be experienced A change in their vaginal discharge (i.e., thin discharge or increased volume) that can be clear, white, yellowish, or greenish with an unusual bad smell. If you’re diagnosed with Trichomoniasis, it’s important to get tested for HIV and other STD’s since this is a sexually transmitted disease. (pulse.ng) 