The former Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation and secretary of Transportation Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Comrade Kayode Opiefa on Thursday bowed to political pressure from All Progressives Congress(APC) and pulled out of the Lagos West Senatorial District race. Opeifa who enjoys the massive support of the people of the district and groups like Lagos West Concern Movement coordinated by Mr. Shittu Odunlami Mutiu told journalists in Lagos that he withdrew from the race to protect the interest of the party. He said, “ I Comrade Kayode Opeifa urge my supporters to abide by the supremacy of the party while the issues of basis and justification will be addressed by the party after the primaries. The interest of the party is uppermost at this moment.’’ The secretary of Transportation Federal Capital Territory (FCT)explained that his attention had earlier been drawn to a news item purportedly from the APC National Leadership relating to the outcome of the Senatorial screening exercises conducted on 21-23 September, 2018 at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja under the chairmanship of Senator Bukar Abba Ibrahim. The unionists said, ‘’To set the records straight, l provided the committee with all that was required and received high commendation from the panel while awaiting the official outcome without any doubt.’’ ‘’Since then, I have traversed the length and breadth of the Senatorial district (the largest in the country with about 15 million people covering the Badagry and Ikeja divisions of Lagos State),  meeting with constituents and stakeholders who are delighted to have seen an opportunity for a deserved Change from within.’’ Opeifa said no matter how accepted he has been in the senatorial district , he cannot afford to go against the interest of the party who felt otherwise, urging his teeming supporter to abide by the decision. It was reliably gathered that the APC have decided to return the senators from the three senatorial districts to the upper chamber in the National Assembly because of their experiences and because they are versed enough to seriously tackle some unfinished businesses thrown up by recent political developments in the country. Speaking with the Coordinator of the Lagos West Concern Movement Mr. Shittu Odunlami Mutiu he said they have abided by the instruction of Comrade Kayode Opeifa that they abide by the decision of the party.