The ruling-All Progressives Congress (APC), in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is shopping for a credible candidate to replace the incumbent chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Hon. Abdullahi Adamu Candido, in 2019 elections. Speaking with some journalists in Abuja at the weekend, a former Nigerian envoy to  the Gambia and chieftain of the party in FCT, Ambassador Ayuba Jacob Ngbako, said that the party needs a candidate who would give AMAC residents the real dividends of democracy Ngbako, who is a former chairman of the council, noted that the current leadership in AMAC is not performing to expectations, adding that even if he is performing, there are still some lapses, such as lopsided appointments and lack of good relationships with party faithful. “In fairness to the current AMAC chairman, I feel that he is not performing. And even if he is performing, there are still some lapses, such as lopsided appointments and lack of good relationships with party faithful. He is equally not a party man. His visions are not sustainable. For instance, he recently established The AMAC Marshal, but where is the marshal today. It is almost dead. Where is also The AMAC Investment, he established. It shows lack of knowledge. So, such person cannot run AMAC, because in a critical time like this, it will be very difficult for the party to achieve results, if you have him as chairman.” The former ambassador pointed out that the numerous markets the AMAC chairman is building are causing more harms than good, because the traders are in the court over the projects, adding,  “You don’t build markets because you want to earn money or other things. You build because you want to better those who are there.” He therefore called on party members in AMAC to look out for the right candidate, for the 2019 elections, who would better the lives of AMAC residents, adding that a leader with qualities has too many opportunities to do more for the people. Ngbako also called on the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, to transfer the responsibilities of cleaning the city centres to the area council, as obtained in other parts of the worlds. He commended the conduct of last senate/House of Representatives primary elections, in the FCT, adding that the direct primary option remains the best choice for primary elections, because it reduces corruption and gives the party more integrity. “In fact direct primary election is what I stand for every time, because that is the only way you would ensure the peoples vote. This is how to make party popular, because it reduces corruption. From my experience, direct primary gives you more integrity, because there would be no manipulation by any big man or money bags.”