Political tension heightened yesterday at the Edo State House of Assembly following the impeachment of the deputy speaker, Hon. Victor Edoro by 16 out of the 24 lawmakers loyal to governor Governor  Obaseki. Heavy sounds of gun shot was heard shortly after the deputy speaker was impeached as suspected thugs armed with dangerous weapons in the full glare of security personnel invaded the Assembly premises in solidarity with the speaker, Kabiru Adjoto LEADERSHIP gathered that the impeachment of the deputy speaker was said to have been the outcome of the seeming crisis between the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and governor Obaseki over the conduct of the party’s primary. Arrow head of the impeachment are that lawmakers failed to secure a return ticket to the House and are determined to bare their fang against perceived Oshiomhole’s loyalists. Edoror is said to be a staunch supporter and loyalist to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Other lawmakers suspended include Gani Audu and Foly Ogedengbe for unruly misbehaviour. There have been alleged plans by some APC chieftains known as Oshiomhole’ boys to impeach Speaker Adjoto and destabilise Obaseki’s administration. A source said another argument adduced for removal of Adjoto was to balance the power tripod in the state and allow a lawmaker from Edo Central emerge speaker. Former speaker of the House, Justin Okonobo representing Igueben constituency was thereafter nominated as the new deputy speaker Chief whip of the House, Osaigbovo Iyoha who drew the attention of the House to the impeachment notice purportedly signed by 16 members accused the deputy speaker of misappropriation of funds, corruption and act of desperation capable of throwing the House into confusion The impeachment motion was seconded by the member reperesenting Akoko Edo constituency 11, Emmanuel Agbale amidst chaos The plenary was however thrown into confusion when the embattled deputy speaker rushed for the mace and laid hold to it for over 45 minutes, an aftermath of unfruitful attempt to move a counter motion of impeachment against the speaker The speaker equally refused  to recognised Foly Ogedegbe who in a counter motion accused him of embezzling N100 million fund belonging  to the House Meanwhile, it took the effort of the security men, mainly armed mobile policemen who were  stationed at the three entrance gates to the Assembly as early as 7 am from stopping the fierce looking thugs armed with sticks from attacking the anti speaker lawmakers Addressing the crowd,  the speaker, Kabiru Adjotor appreciated the thugs for coming to defend democracy “I will always be loyal to APC party. The interest of the state is much more greater than the interest of an individual in Abuja. As APC member, we are working hard to ensure president Buhari win come 2019”.