State governors from the South South geo-political zone yesterday met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. The governors who met with the president in his office are Nyesom Wike of Rivers, Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta and Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom. LEADERSHIP gathered that the meeting held behind closed doors had Supreme Court verdict on the oil-bearing states of the Niger Delta on October 17 as the prime in its agenda. A source who is privy to the meeting told our correspondent that the governors met the president seeking the increase in revenues accruable to the federating states, particularly the littoral states, under the extant revenue sharing formula. Rivers, Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom States had approached the Supreme Court for the interpretation of Section 16 (1) of the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract Act in a suit number SC964/2016 filed on their behalf by their lead Counsel, Mr Lucius Nwosu. The section mandates the federal government to adjust the shares of the revenue accruable to the federation whenever the price of crude oil exceeded 20 dollars per barrel. NNPC Records N7.15b Trading Surplus In June Meanwhile, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) said it has made N7.15 billion as trading surplus in the month of June, lower than N18.12 billion made in May. The Corporation disclosed this on its June edition of the monthly financial report made available. The version was the 35th edition of the financial report of the corporation. NNPC said, “This 35th edition of the report indicated a trading surplus of N7.15billion which is relatively lower than the May 2018 trading surplus of N18.12billion. “The reduced performance was mainly due to decline in the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company’s production and lifting.” According to the report, the corporation has developed 12 key Business Focus Areas to grow the business and increase profitability for the benefit of Nigerians. It noted that the business focus area had contributed to consistency in trading surplus of the corporation since February this year. It named the 12 key business areas to include: Security, New Business models, Joint Venture cash calls, Production and reserve growth, NPDC growth and gas Development. Other areas are Refinery upgrade and expansion, Renewable Energy and Frontier Exploration, Oil and Gas infrastructure, Ventures and common services, professionalism and Accountability and staff welfare. On supply of Premium Motor Spirit, known as petrol, the report noted that 44.37 million litres of PMS were supplied by NNPC through Petroleum Products Marketing Company, its subsidiary for the month of June. “This effort continued to ensure seamless supply and distribution of products”, it stated.