PMB, IBB, others mourn… Elder statesman and former minister of works, Chief Anthony Akhakon Anenih, is dead. He died yesterday evening at the age of 85 at Cedarcrest Hospital, Abuja, where he was receiving treatment for an undisclosed ailment. His family said last night that they will miss their patriarch who they said enjoyed God’s uncommon grace while alive. A statement by Anenih’s son, Anthony, on behalf of the family noted that the late elder statesman passed on after a brief illness and that burial arrangement will be announced soon. The statement reads: “With heavy heart and total submission to the will of the Almighty God, the family of Chief Anthony Akhakon Anenih, CFR, the Iyasele of Esanland, announces his passing on to glory today, Sunday, October 28, 2018 after a brief illness. “Aged 85, Chief Anthony Akhakon Anenih, is survived by many children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. A beloved patriarch, he enjoyed God’s uncommon grace while alive. “He served God and humanity with commitment.  He also served his fatherland to the best of his ability. We will all sorely miss him. But his legacies live on. Burial arrangements by the family will be announced subsequently.” Born in Edo State, Mr Anenih was one of the most influential politicians of his era. He was nicknamed ‘Mr Fix It’ for his ability to navigate and manipulate the political landscape. Anenih was a state chairman of Nigeria’s then ruling party, National Party of Nigeria (NPN), between 1981 and 1983. He is believed to have played a major role in the controversial 1983 general elections, especially in his home state of Bendel (now Edo State) where he helped Samuel Ogbemudia to victory. Anenih was also the national chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1993 under whose platform Moshood Abiola won the June 12, 1993 presidential election. Chief Abiola was later imprisoned by the Sani Abacha dictatorship with many of his supporters accusing Anenih of betraying the June 12 cause. Upon the return to democracy in 1999, Anenih was also a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was appointed works minister by then President Olusegun Obasanjo. He was later accused of masterminding the mismanagement of hundreds of billions of naira while he held sway as works minister.  PMB, IBB, Others Mourn President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to the Anenih family on the death of its patriarch, Chief Tony Anenih. President Buhari, in a statement by his special adviser on media, Femi Adesina, also commiserated with the government and people of Edo State and the PDP on the passing of their illustrious son and former chairman, Board of Trustees. The president described the late Anenih as a frontline figure in the annals of the country’s political history, saying that he lived a life of service as state chairman of the NPN, national chairman of the SDP, chieftain of the PDP, and a former minister of works. “President Buhari affirms that across the political spectrum of Nigeria, Chief Anenih was known for his strong views on issues pertaining to the unity and stability of the nation. “The President prays almighty God to grant Chief Anenih’s soul eternal rest and comfort all who mourn the octogenarian,” Adesina said. On his part, former military president, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (rtd), described the late Anenih as a charismatic elder statesman who  has unique passion of providing solutions in governance as a master political strategist. Babangida, in a condolence message yesterday in Minna, Niger State, said that the demise of Anenih was a big loss to the political scene of Nigeria at this crucial time of electioneering campaign. “Indeed Nigeria and Nigerians will greatly miss a political master strategist in the next political dispensation,”  he said. He expressed his condolences to the immediate family of the late Anenih, the Oba of Benin, the government and people of Edo State as well as the entire members of the PDP. Also, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, sympathized with the government and people of Edo State over the Anenih’s demise. Dogara in his condolence message described Anenih’s death as a huge loss not only to Edo State but to the nation as a whole. “We have lost a father, counsellor, leader par excellence and a patriot who gave his all for the unity of this country. He was a distinguished and exemplary officer while he served in the Nigerian Police until his retirement as Deputy Commissioner of Police. On his part, the national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, described the late politician as “indeed a political colossus”. Oshiomhole noted that despite their differences in political affiliation, there was no denying the late Anenieh’s commitment to Nigeria’s progress. In a statement he personally signed, the APC national chairman also noted that he was happy that their differences were resolved before his passing on even as he revealed that Chief Anenih had endorsed his candidacy for the office of APC national chairman. “I received with heavy heart the news of the passing of Chief Tony Anenih.  He was indeed a political colossus.  Politics may have separated us, but nothing affected our personal relationship. Whatever public disagreement we might have had, I am consoled that we both reconciled at the church altar after he announced his retirement from partisan politics. “It is a measure of his generosity of spirit that when I announced my interest in the chairmanship of APC earlier this year, he wrote a letter of endorsement, expressing absolute confidence in my ability to inspire APC to greater heights”. To Edo State governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, Anenih’s death came as a shock. According to him, Anenih’s contribution to the nation would be missed. Obaseki who spoke through his special adviser on media and communication strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the people of the state were consoled by the fact that Anenih lived a long and fruitful life. He, however, said it was unfortunate that he died at a time the country was going into campaigns, adding that his fatherly role would be missed. The candidate of the APC for Ovia Constituency in the House of Representatives, Mr. Dennis Idahosa, said Anenih’s contribution to the country’s political development cannot be forgotten easily due to his fatherly role. On his part, Comrade Mathew Emiohe,  the newly appointed board member, Ambrose Alli University Ekpoma, yesterday said Nigeria would miss his fatherly advice and guidance. He described him as a statesman whose contributionss to the nation’s political history and development will remain a reference point. Similarly, the PDP yesterday mourned its former stalwart, Anenih, saying it  is shocked by the news of the demise of one of our founding fathers and former Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman.s The party described Chief Anenih as a great Nigerian, a light bearer, brilliant administrator, fine officer, quintessential nationalist and democratic icon, who made innumerable sacrifices for the unity, stability and development of our dear nation. A statement by the party, signed by its national spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted: “Indeed, Chief Anenih, who was known in the political circle as “Mr. Fix it” owing to his ability to find solutions to very knotty political and governance issues, remains a colossus with unparalleled array of legacies which will be celebrated for generations”.