With the governorship primaries of the political parties for the next year’s general elections in Nasarawa State over, the battle has been shifted to who would be selected as deputy governors to those who secured their parities’ tickets, writes DANJUMA JOSEPH With the above, all seems not to be well with the Nasarawa State chapters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), over who becomes the deputy governor, to fly the tickets with the two governorship candidates of the parties in 2019. The quarrel over which zone produces the deputy governor in the two major political parties in the state is raging, which if care is not taken will affect the fortune of the parties in the forthcoming general elections. The crisis is ignited as a result of the victory of the parties in the recent primaries, where Eng Abdulahi A. Sule, beat other ten governorship aspirants of APC, while Emmanuel David Umbugadu, beat four aspirants to emerge the PDP governorship candidate. LEADERSHIP observed that, since the emergence of the governorship candidates of APC and PDP in Nasarawa State, there were no excitements of sort from supporters of the two political, probably because they are not the popular choices of the people. Political pundits observed that there were no celebrations simply because the candidates of both APC and PDP, emerged against the popular wishes of the masses who have the final say at the polls in 2019. To add salt to injuries is the alleged manipulations by the leaders of the political parties in the state, to force their preferred candidates as deputies on the throats of stakeholders and party faithful for reason best known to them. LEADERSHIP gathered that the deputy governorship candidate of the ruling party APC, Dr Emmanuel Akabe, was introduced to the governorship candidate Eng Sule, in a meeting and that has generated serious tension in the party in the state, simply because there was no consultation. Dr Akabe, is a former commissioner for health under the present APC led government in the state, who owns a private hospital in Abuja. He is also a chief consultant and ophthalmologist providing diagnostic and therapeutic service for the management of eye. Dr Akabe, is an Alago by tribe, one of the majority ethnic groups in the state and he hails from Doma Local Government Area. He was alleged to have emerged against the wishes of both the party and the govership candidate, Eng. Sule. Our correspondent gathered that Dr Akabe, emerged out of three persons tipped from the Alago nation, by APC for the number two job. But in a swift reaction to this development, members of APC in Nasarawa West Senatorial zone, known as Keffi zone, consisting of five local governments namely Keffi, Kokona, Toto, Nasarawa and Karu local governments, has raised an eyebrow, accusing APC of short changing the zone of the earlier agreement for it to produce the deputy governor. A chieftain of the party, in Keffi zone who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, described the process as undemocratic and unfair. He said with that decision APC has put the future of the party in jeopardy. “All we want is a transparent process, that will produce the deputy governor of our great party and based on the earlier agreement that our zone will produce the deputy governor, Nasarawa north, governor, then Nasarawa south speaker of the assembly” he said. He accused the leader of the party in the state, Gov Umaru Tanko Al-Makura and the working committee of the party for such an irrational decision, saying it will spell doom for the party that has a lot axe to grind. On the other hand, there is serious tension in PDP Nasarawa State chapter over who would be the party’s deputy governorship candidate to deputize Emmanuel David Umbugadu, in the general elections. LEADERSHIP reliably gathered that several attempts by the top echelon of the party to resolve the impasse failed, because the state chairman of PDP, Francis Enokela Orogu, is bent on ensuring that Nasarawa South Senatorial Zone, Known as Lafia Zone, where he comes from, produces the deputy governor. As if that wasn’t enough, Orogu, it was gathered, had suggested the name of Mohammed Ogoshi Onawo, from Doma and a serving member of the National Assembly, representing Doma/Awe/Keana Federal Constituency, who hails from his wife’s local government, to be the PDP deputy governor. Our correspondent gathered that Orogu’s position is against the party’s earlier zoning arrangement,  where it was agreed that Akwanga Zone, will produce the governor, Keffi Zone, deputy governor and Lafia zone, will produce the speaker and secretary to the state government. LEADERSHIP gathered that the debate about which senatorial zone would produce the deputy governor in PDP, has generated serious tension, with Keffi zone, threatening to vote against PDP, who had remained opposition in the state, since 2011. With the above hullabaloo in the the rulling party, APC and the opposition PDP,  if appropriate majors are not taking before hand, the two political parties stand the chances of loosing elections in 2019.