Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello yesterday met Vice President Yemi Osinbajo over speculations that the federal government is planning on selling Ajaokuta Steel. Speaking to State House correspondents after the meeting, Governor Bello said the  Vice president assured him that  there is no plan by the government to sell the steel company. He said “first of all, the Vice President, being the Chairman of the National Economic Council, we came to make some enquiries from him over the purported sale of Ajaokuta Steel Complex and he has indicated that there is nothing like that. “He said there is no plan by the Federal Government to sale Ajaokuta Steel Company. The VP said Ajaokuta is an asset of the Federal Government and that they are looking into how best to make good use of that particular complex for the benefit of Nigerians at large. Recall that the Kogi state Elders Forum had vowed to resist any attempt to sell off the Ajaokuta Steel Company. The forum, in a statement issued in Lokoja said it would employ all constitutional means to stop the sale of the “sprawling integrated steel company.” The Federal government, according to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele had hinted that the aim of the planned sale is to raise more money to implement the country’s 2018 deficit-based budget. Governor Bello also boasted that the 2019 presidential election will be a walk over for President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, the north central will deliver massive votes as never witnessed before to President Buhari in the general elections. He said “On the preparation for 2019 general elections he said, every primary can be anchor out and everybody can hustle for one ticket or the other. “ I can assure you that we have a capable leadership of the party – President Muhammadu Buhari. Also, we have our able chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomole who is doing his best to ensure that the party is strong and the party is really very strong. “As for the general elections, in Kogi State, we are one hundred percent ready and we are going sweep all the state and by the grace of God, we shall bring out a vote that has never been witnessed in the North Central by the Grace of God. “ I can assure you as well that the 2019 elections for Mr President, it’s going to be a walk over by the grace of God. He also disclosed that state would on Saturday coronate the new Oba of Kabba. “Also, we are going to coronate the new Oba of Kabba on Saturday, we came to notify him as a father of the event that is coming up on Saturday and to seek for his blessings, “ he added.