Dr Jamil Isyaku Gwamna the (Sardaunan Gombe) and a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State has been touted by supporters and residents of Gombe as the needed revolution for APC’s victory in 2019. The supporters expressed their optimisms in separate interviews, stating that Gwamna had the structure of a governor in every part of the state. They added that such structures and supports would not only increase the chances of APC in 2019 but would entrench APC as the party with the highest supporters in the state. A political analyst and educationist, Dr Mohammed Tukur, said the kind of sincerity that Gwamna has is transparent enough to attract people to whatever party he moves to. According to him “politics is about garnering supporters through proven integrity from the way one relates with the grassroots and Dr Jamil Isyaku Gwamna has done well in that regard” “When you have the kind of transparent integrity as a person, getting unrepentant supporters will be easy. Dr Jamil Isyaku Gwamna has been tested and the people are clamouring to make him governor and he has that support in Gombe state as a whole”. He added that this was one revolution that will give APC the added advantage to victory in 2019. “If you add the supporters of Gwamna to those of Senator Danjuma Goje and Alhaji InuwaYahaya, the vote will be too massive for any party in the state to compete. “With the enviable track record of Dr Jamil Isyaku Gwamna, it was a mistake for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to have denied him his mandate. Gwamna’s open declaration of working to ensure victory for APC in Nigeria and Gombe should not be taken as gimmick because Gwamna is a man that keeps his words’’, he said. It would be recalled that Dr Jamil Isyaku Gwamna had on Oct. 3, declared his support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 bid and Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, APC gubernatorial candidate in Gombe State. A PDP delegate of Tangale descent who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that the majority of the Tangale /Waja had decided to turn in their votes for the APC for two reasons; “The people of Tangale as far as I have heard and observed are going to vote APC because Gov. Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo reneged on his promise to Gombe South and also denied the most credible candidate the chance he deserved. It would have been difficult for APC to win Gombe South if Gwamna was elected but with Senator Nafada, I will rather vote for APC because of Gwamna, as I did vote for him during the primaries’’, he said. A rice farmer, Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim said he had been a direct beneficiary of Dr Gwamna’s benevolence like many others especially the youths and so he owed much to the Sardaunan Gombe. “The people at the grassroots have come to love Sardaunan Gombe for whom and what he has been to many especially the youths and you know good-news needs no advert. “We will see the reaction of what APC has gained when campaigns start and Sardaunan Gombe make any request, the response from his supporters will be unimaginable’’ he noted.  