There appears to be confusion in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter, over the winners of the only senate seat and the two houses of representative’s seats for 2019 general election. The primary election for FCT-APC for senatorial ticket was conducted on Friday, while that of the House of Representatives for Abuja south and Abuja north was held on Saturday, however as at Monday, results of the elections have not been released. During a visit to the to the collation venue, at Kapital Klub and Apartments in Asokoro, security officials were seen stationed at the entrance, while some of the supporters to the aspirants and their agents, including some observers were milling round the area. However, one of the agents from Abaji in Àbuja south, Hon. Sanusi Hussaini who spoke with newsmen at the venue expressed disappointment over the development. Hussaini regretted that the primary election into the senate was held on Friday, but since then nothing has being heard about the result, which according to him, ought to be announced before now. “My worry and pains is the manner the situation is being handled starting from the national committee level down to the state level. Some of us don’t know what is causing the delay after the whole collation, all attempts to reach even our state executives was not successful.” In an interview, the public relations officer, FCT APC, Engr Usman Adaji said that the delay was caused by few issues occasioned by the direct primary election, saying the challenges were as a result of inconclusive primary election experienced in some political wards. Adaji also described the election as an ‘internal affairs’, adding that the election was inconclusive in some areas, which he didn’t mention. He disclosed that the National Working Committee (NWC) was sorting out areas were the inclusive issues were recorded before announcing the results, adding that most of the areas were not accessible and the committee members had to be given more time to work on them since the results came in late.