The All Progressive Congress (APC), Delta State chapter on Tuesday, lost one of its popular chieftain and financial pillar to the Peoples Democracy Party (PDP). The Defector, Chief Emmanuel Ogwuda, (popularly known and addressed as impression) who announced his resignation from the APC in Asaba, the State capital noted that APC has no political platform and leadership quality to deliver the dividends of democracy to Deltans. According to him, his resignation from the APC stemmed from his quest to pave the way for the socio-economic development of his people adding that only the PDP has political structure and believes in equity and spirit of oneness. His words, ‘’today, I resign from the APC it lacks political platform and because the party has spoiled the beauty of democracy by concentrating power in one individual. I strongly believe that the core aspect of political activities is giving democracy dividends to the people and it is only in PDP that one can achieve it”. Chief Ogwuda decried the hijack of APC political platform by one man, a fact he noted was undemocratic and responsible for the series of crisis threatening the political platform advancement of the party, contrary to the PDP political platform which creates a healthy corridor for its membership asserting that such good leadership quality stimulates the socio-economic advancement of the party across the nation. He noted that the rapid infrastructure growth and development witnessed in the State stems from the good leadership quality exhibited by the senator Ifeanyi Okowa. “Today, Senator Okowa’s good leadership quality has confused’ Deltans with the high level of infrastructure development across the State’’. Chief Ogwuda, assured Deltans of the readiness of many persons in APC to decamp and join the progressive PDP leadership in the State to pave way for the spread of dividends of democracy across the State. In his reaction, the secretary of the state PDP, Chief Obi Nzete congratulated the defector, describing as a stronger pillar in APC adding that his action will trigger massive decamping of APC members to PDP in the State soon. While welcoming him into the PDP political platform, he noted that the effective and efficient management of the party in line with the constitution created opportunity for the people from different zones to participate actively, adding that Chief Ogwuda will be receive in today’s political rally in Kwale, where he would be fully embraced into PDP family before an enlarged audience.   