The Bafarawa Support Alliance Group (BSAG) has said that the group has commenced the feeding of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates in Port Harcourt, saying their welfare remains paramount. LEADERSHIP gathered that no fewer than 60,000 PDP delegates will be at the convention. To achieve this, the national chairman of the group, Dr Frank Osagie, told newsmen on Thursday that the group would be visiting delegates in their hotels and other locations to deliver food and drinks to them. According to Osagie, it is the duty of the group to ensure that the welfare of delegates in Port Harcourt for the convention is paramount. The group has since commenced the delivery of food and drinks to some delegates at Voyage Hotel, Stadium Road. He called on delegates that were yet to benefit from this welfare package to contact the group at their secretariat at Living Shepherd Hills Hotel. The BASG chairman further commended the PDP for its recent assurance to party faithfuls that a mechanism had been put in place to ensure a level playing ground for all the aspirants. He expressed optimism that Bafarawa, the former Sokoto State governor, would win the Primary Election and become the Presidential flag bearer of PDP for the 2019 election. He said Bafarawa had earlier visited all the 36 states of the federation and the FCT to consult with the party delegates who assured him of their votes. According to him, Bafarawa’s integrity and clean political record distinguished him from other aspirants. Osagie added that the former governor had left more than N12 billion in the state’s treasury which his predecessor had used to consolidate on his achievements for eight years. He appealed to the delegates to make a wise choice by voting Bafarawa whose credentials and integrity had been tested and proven and who was acceptable to every religion, region and tribe. Osagie said wrestling power from the current APC-led administration would be much easier if Bafarawa flew the party’s flag in 2019.   