President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday condemned the latest communal violence in Kasuwan Magani in Kaduna State that claimed over 55 lives. A statement by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, quoted the president as saying the frequent resort to bloodshed by Nigerians over misunderstandings that can be resolved peacefully is worrisome. According to the President, “No culture and religion support the disregard for the sanctity of life,” even as he noted that “peaceful coexistence is necessary for the progress of any society and its wellbeing.” Buhari said without communal harmony, the environment for the conduct of “our everyday businesses would be impossible to achieve.” President Buhari observed thatviolence cannot be an alternative to peace”, adding that on the contrary, reliance on violence leads to ultimate self-destruction.  “Violence is an ill wind that blows nobody any good. Embracing peace is a necessity”, he noted, just as he commended the Kaduna State government for its rapid response to the crisis. The president, while appealing to community leaders to engage in regular dialogue to nip imminent crises in the bud, admonished the people to develop the spirit of tolerance and patience at all times. …Expresses Regret Over Abia Pipeline Explosion Also, President Buhari yesterday expressed expressed regret over the unnecessary loss of lives and property as a result of the pipeline explosion in Osisioma Ngwa community of Abia State on Friday morning. Preliminary reports by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) show that the incident was not an accidental explosion, but a result of vandals who pilloried the pipelines to scoop the products. President Buhari, in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu, sympathised with those who lost loved ones. He urged communities and state governments that host oil pipelines to be more vigilant and rise to combat the challenges posed by pipeline vandalism.  Noting that the Enugu depot of the NNPC has been repaired and ready to function, but remains idle today because of the vandals, the president appealled to host communities to collaborate with the NNPC to tame oil pipeline vandalism in their areas.