Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose on Thursday hinted that he would not attend the inauguration of his successor Dr. Kayode Fayemi slated for October 16th, 2018 in the state. The governor spoke while addressing a press conference in Ado Ekiti said that he would not attend the inauguration ceremony to avoid erratic behaviours, harassment and intimidation by politicians. Fayose added that despite his ordeals he would be a fulfilled man after bowing out of office on October 16, 2018. The governor said he had promised to appear at the office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on October 16, which he said coincided with day of the swearing in. According to him, “Politicians are erratic people, if I should attend the programme, some politicians may use the chance to harass me even when they are not sent by Fayemi. “This will further destroy relationship. Issues between me and Fayemi is not personal. I have been cooperating with the committee set up by Fayemi on this transition “Again, I have to be in EFCC office in Abuja on Tuesday. But let me say clearly that I am ready to appear before any Panel set up by incoming government to probe my administration”, he said. Fayose stated that he has not committed Ekiti to any debt, either by way of bond or bank loans since he took over in 2014. “Contrary to what they are saying that I have committed Ekiti to a huge debt, I didn’t commit Ekiti with a dime. Whatever we do in government, history will forever remain after us”. He urged Fayemi to deploy the N327 million kept in bank by his administration to complete the new Oja Oba market for the use of Ekiti traders. The governor added that he decided to abandon the civic centre project started by Fayemi and constructed a new market because it was not a priority to the people of the state. Fayose said the newly built Ministry of Finance shall be named after former Minister of National Planning, Chief Ayo Ogunlade to appreciate his contributions to the state. The governor said he decided not to name any project after himself on the basis of his belief that such was morally wrong. “The flyover, the new governor’s office, the roads, the Oja Oba market, the Funmilayo Olayinka Women development centre and other projects will speak for me even if I refuse to name projects after myself”. He urged members of the State House of Assembly to work together for the good of the state irrespective of their political differences. Fayose said what is important is the growth and development of the state, stressing the need for all the stakeholders particularly the legislative arm of the government to put the interest of Ekiti first in all their actions and inactions. “What is important is the development of Ekiti and its people. All of them should stay together and work for the good of Ekiti. “Ekiti is bigger than any individual, because we in the government will leave our positions one day whether we like it or not but the state will remain. “Above all, with Kola Oluwawole or Ebenezer Alagbada as speaker, I enjoin them to cooperate with the incoming administration in the overall interest of our people. “I won’t dabble into what is happening in the assembly. Whether they elect Oluwawole or Alagbada, such person must believe that he was elected to serve Ekiti people. “I enjoin them to cooperate with Fayemi to move Ekiti forward. I don’t want to hear of any impeachment against Fayemi, if truly we are here to serve”, he advised. The governor who thanked the people of the state for the opportunity given to him to serve them twice, said he will always treasure it. He said, “The second opportunity you gave me afford me the opportunity of writing my name in the anal of history of the state. “All the projects I initiated and executed will stand the test of time. I am leaving here a fulfilled man not minding what is happening to me politically. We never allowed the lives of our people to be endangered by stemming acts that could stoke violence”. 