The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha has told the Governing Boards of Federal Parastatals, Universities and Medical Centres that they don’t have powers to suspend or remove a Chief Executive appointed by the President without due process. According to a statement by his media office, Boss Mustapha stated this at the Induction programme for batches 2,3 and 4 Governing Board Members of Federal Parastatals, Universities and Medical Centres at Transcorp Hilton Abuja, yesterday. He said that the inaugural edition of the programme held between 26th – 28th July, 2018, recorded a huge success and the programme had promoted effective and good corporate governance. However, the SGF noted that one or two of the Boards that attended the programme failed to understand their roles and responsibilities. The SGF also stated that this ”Induction Programme” is particularly important and it came at a time when the Nation is poised for a holistic transformation process that is heralding the entrenchment of good and purposeful governance in our country which is anchored on Security, anticorruption and economic growth. Mustapha said that Parastatals are established to provide Services and are under the supervision of the Presidency or a Minister. He added that “the roles of Governing Boards/Councils as the case maybe, are prescribed by the statutes, guidelines and extant circulars” He further said that the Governing Boards/Councils headed by the Chairman are ‘stricto senso’ to provide policy direction and implementation of programmes and projects designed and funded for the achievement of the mandates of their respective Parastatals. The SGF used the occasion to highlight the roles and responsibilities of the Governing Boards as being provided by the Statutes, guidelines and extant circulars. This according to him include: Statutory Boards/Councils shall set operational and administrative policies in accordance with government policy directives and shall supervise the implementations of such polices. A Board shall not be involved directly in the day to day management of a Parastatal or an Agency. A Minister exercises control of Parastatals at policy level through the Board of the Parastatal and that Board must operate on part time bases. Earlier in his Address, the Acting Director General, Bureau of Public Service Reforms, Mr. D.I Arabi reiterated the need for organising an Induction programme for the Governing Board Members. According to him “While top level Federal Civil Servants, such as Permanent Secretaries grow through the Federal Civil Service and Acquire Wide Public Service Knowledge and experience in the conduct of government business, most Chief executive Officers and Governing Board Members of Federal Agencies to some extent, lack such Knowledge and experience because most of them were appointed from outside Public Service”