The Kaduna State Security Council has revealed that 32 persons have been arrested over their involvement in the disturbances and killings in the state, saying the suspects will be investigated and prosecuted. The Council has directed that the curfew in Kachia be relaxed immediately.  A statement issued by spokesman to the state governor, Samuel Aruwan, noted that within the curfew areas, security agencies thwarted attempts to destroy places of worship in Kawo and Hanyin Banki.  “It was also reported that one person was killed in Kasuwan Magani and another arrested with a weapon overnight”, Aruwan stated.  The statement made available to LEADERSHIP Sunday reads in part: “The Security Council noted with gratitude the exemplary conduct of the people of Kachia who have remained peaceful while mourning the loss of a much revered monarch.  “In recognition of this positive contribution to harmony, residents of Kachia are free to go about their legitimate business from now till 5pm today. From tomorrow, Sunday, 28th October 2018, Kachia residents are also free to move from 6am to 5pm daily.”  The statement further said that Kaduna town and other affected areas are still under 24-hour curfew.  “The Security Council advises residents to continue to comply with curfew hours, warning that only persons involved with delivering essential services would be permitted free passage. Curfew violations are crimes that will earn arrest and prosecution”, the statement noted. On the decisions taken at the Security Council meeting, Aruwan said, “A select committee of the Kaduna State Security Council met this morning. The heads of the security agencies in Kaduna State and senior government officials, led by Governor Nasir El-Rufai, reviewed the security situation in the state.  “The council sympathised with residents on the inconvenience associated with the curfew, saying it was imposed to save lives and is under constant review.  “The Security Council noted the substantial compliance with the curfew by residents and welcomed the atmosphere of calm largely prevailing in the areas under curfew, as well as across the state. The Security Council commended residents for refusing to allow criminal elements to divide our communities and sow chaos. “It urged Kaduna residents to continue to cooperate with the security agencies, to ensure that those who want a peaceful, law-governed society prevail over criminals who prefer chaos and anarchy.”