The Nigerian Army has assured that the commissioning of the  Army University, Biu in Borno state will hold tomorrow as planned. The Army has earlier announced a postponement but later apologised insisting that  its scheduled commissioning would  go on as planned for October 30. “Kindly disregard the earlier postponement. All Inconveniences are regretted,” the Army said. President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to commission the university as its first set of students begin arriving on campus for its take- off academic year. The Federal Executive Council gave the army final approval for the establishment of the university in April, months after construction of major buildings on campus had either been completed or near completion. The Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, said the institution was designed to tackle unique challenges, especially on specific security crises the military faces in its war against Boko Haram and armed banditry. The university has already started taking its first set of students for its take off academic year. Mr Buratai expressed satisfaction with the progress of infrastructure at the university earlier this year, anticipating it would be opened by September. The Nigerian Army University, Biu which is part of strategies to reposition the Nigerian Army and military is open to both civil and military populace. The admission policy of the university provides 75 percent for civilians and 25 percent for military/paramilitary and other security agencies. The Nigerian Army University is to serve as a solution centre for the technological and other operational problems of the Nigerian Army, the military and the nation. “The institution is designed to create the critical mass required for research, innovation, testing and development of military equipment in a 21st Century setting’ he said. The university is to facilitate the creation of the enabling environment that will enhance the accelerated development and eventual production of modern military hardware. The Chief of Army Staff said: “Apart from being a unique university, it will be a centre of excellence for learning, research and technological development which is consistent with the compelling requirements of 21st Century armies that strive to conceive, develop and source their military platforms and other requirements locally. “The new university will promote excellence, ingenuity, creativity and distinctive competence in intellectual outcomes”. The founding principles and philosophy of the university are based on the creation of an interdisciplinary learning environment, shared facilities and constant interaction among organs and units, driven by the factors of self-reliance and self-sufficiency. The university according to the Army will “utilise scientific and technological knowledge to develop credible and creative capacity for proffering solutions to the problems of the Nigerian Army, the military as well as the nation”.