Thousands of All Progressives Congress (APC) members in Kaduna have trooped out and besieged the state party secretariat to protest what they termed as imposition of Senator Shehu Sani as the automatic candidate of the party for Kaduna central senatorial district come 2019 general elections. It would be recalled that the National Working committee (NWC) released the name of Senator Sani as the cleared candidate to contest the Kaduna Central senatorial election. The aggrieved members came out with placards with various inscriptions calling on the NWC to rescind  their decision or face unpalatable action which will also include voting against President Muhammadu Buhari if their preferred and ‘popular’ choice who is the present political adviser to the state governor, Uba Sani is not given the ticket. The inscriptions carried on their placards include “No to Oshiomhole,”; “No to Shehu Sani,”; “Oshiomhole is a fraudster”,; “Sai Uba Sani,”; “No to automatic ticket,”; “No to injustice,” among several others. The angry members and perceived supporters of Uba Sani who temporarily blocked the popular Ali Turaki way also chanted in Hausa; “bama so, bama so,” meaning, “we don’t want, we don’t want except Uba Sani “. Some of them also told our correspondent that if the perceived injustice is allowed it will lead to the down fall of the party in the state and aggrieved members might engage in anti-party activities during the general elections. Presenting the position of the aggrieved supporters, the candidate of the APC in the local government election for Kajuru local government which did not hold, Hon Cafra Caino emphatically said, “If the decision of the NWC of the party is not rescinded, we will not vote for APC in Kaduna. President Buhari must intervene on this matter to prevent anti-party activities in the elections.” “We came out en mass today (yesterday) to vote for our senatorial candidate only for the National Working Committee to send the name of Senator Shehu Sani as the automatic candidate, this is injustice and will be resisted. “ We reject automatic ticket and we will not succumb to automatic ticket, our choice for Kaduna central is Uba Sani because Senator Shehu Sani insulted the party at all levels, President Buhari and Malam Nasir el-Rufai. “The action of the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is an attempt to overheat the polity in the state and it will not be allowed. Injustice will destroy our party,” he stressed.