The Top10 Magazine,  a Lagos based monthly publication known for celebrating the best in every segment of the society has released the list of the top 10 appointees of the Buhari administration under the title, “The Top 10 Pillars of Buhari’s Change Agenda”. The list is contained in the current edition of the magazine dedicated to the 10 most outstanding appointees of the Buhari administration who have distinguished themselves as the pillars of the change agenda of the regime. Leading the list are Minister of Transportation, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, Comptroller of Customs, Hameed Ali and Executive Vice Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, Prof. Danbatta and the Managing Director of AMCON, Ahmed Kuru. Others are Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udoma Udo Udoma, The Group Managing Director, NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Mr. Babatunde Fowler and Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu. In a release issued by Mr. Tony Iji, publisher of The Top10, he said, “In continuation of our tradition of celebrating 10 leading lights in every sector of the society, this edition of the magazine focuses on the top 10 appointees in the current administration who have played key roles in changing the narrative in their various ministries and agencies to make the promised change happened in the economic and social lives of Nigerians. He said that in spite of many challenges faced by his administration, President Buhari has been able to register some appreciable performance in some critical sectors. Iji stated that the successes recorded so far wouldn’t have been possible without the commitment and extra ordinary effort of some of his key appointees who have distinguished themselves as the drivers of the change agenda as shown by their performance. He said that the ability of the president to identify and deploy the able personalities to drive the change process of his administration is the key factor in the progress the administration has made so far in the pursuit of his change agenda. Iji affirmed that this informed the decision of The Top10 Magazine to dedicate a special edition to celebrate the distinguished men and women for their contributions to the Buhari change agenda. He said that the list of the top 10 was arrived at after careful performance analysis of major appointees and other public officials of the administration since the coming of President Buhari. According to him, the performance analysis carried out, these 10 appointees clearly standout as the real golden men of Buhari’s change agenda.v