Minister of Transport Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi has ordered China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC) to provide the design for railway stations that would be built along communities, towns and cities located along Lagos to Ibadan railway corridor. Amaechi made this remark recently during an on the spot inspection of the work so far done by the company from the Ibadan to Abeokuta axis of the standard gauge rail project. The ministry had earlier been given December deadline to complete construction of the ongoing Lagos to Ibadan Standard gauge railway line. While expressing satisfaction over level of work done, he enjoined CCECC to acquire more equipment so that beams for the bridges built along the Lagos to Ibadan corridor could be launched simultaneously and by extension enhance the pace of work towards completion of the project on schedule. Meanwhile, CCECC has commenced construction of Porter Cabins that would serve as temporary offices for staff of Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) pending the demolition of the existing railway stations and construction of news respectively in the Lagos axis of the Corporation. LEADERSHIP findings showed that the contractor has commenced construction of Porter Cabins at Agege, Ikeja, Sogunle and Mushin railway stations to mention but a few. Recalled that LEADRERSHIP exclusively reported that the existing 13 railway stations between Iddo and Ijoko would soon be demolished and Porter Cabins built for officials of the NRC to regulate movement of trains on the existing narrow gauge railway line. In related development, NRC has placed orders for procurement spare parts for rehabilitation of locomotive engines that are awaiting repairs in its fleet. Lagos district manager of the Corporation Engr. Jerry Oche said it is coming on the heel of complaints made by passengers of Lagos Mass Transit Train service over the frequent unscheduled movement of trains and brake down of few functional locomotive engines at regular intervals.