An Islamic/Arabic teacher and cleric, Abdulrazak Adeniyi, has, at a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, Oyo State accused his wife, Barakat Adeniyi, of sleeping with her former lover in their matrimonial bed. Adeniyi made this allegation while defending himself in a divorce suit filed against him by his wife at the customary court. The court’s president, Alhaji Suleiman Apanpa, however, dissolved the two-year old marriage between the two over alleged acts of infidelity and irresponsibility. Apanpa held that the court took its decision in consonance with the wish and resolution of both parties, Barakat and Abdulrazak. Apanpa said: “In the interest of peace and tranquillity, the union between Bakarat and Adulrazak has ceased to be. “The custody of the one and a half year-old child produced by the union is awarded to Barakat while Abdulrazak shall pay a monthly allowance of N5, 000 for the child’s upkeep. “In addition, Abdulrazak is directed to give adequate attention to his education and other welfare.” Earlier, Barakat, in her petition, accused her husband of alleged gross irresponsibility. Barakat, a petty trader, told the court that her husband no longer loved her. She said: “My lord, Abdulrazak is such a wicked husband, who doesn’t care about what happens to me and our child. “For two weeks, he may not even ask about the baby’s welfare.” In his defence, Abdulrazak refuted his wife’s claim of being irresponsible and accused Barakat of alleged adultery. He said: “Just five months after Barakat gave birth to our first child, I discovered that she stopped breast feeding the baby without notifying me. “Within a twinkle of an eye, Barakat’s ex-lover started visiting her in my own home, especially anytime I was not around. “Shortly, Barakat became pregnant and she shamefully abandoned my house because I had stopped making love with her by then. “This is the reason the baby started feeding on custard and milk, which I usually provide. “In fact, anytime I went to give Barakat money for the baby’s feeding, I usually saw her secret lover in the same room with her. “Therefore, Barakat is a pathological liar for branding me as irresponsible. “I pray this honourable court to grant me the custody of the baby because I am capable of taking care of him in my school.”