Indications have emerged that Senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial zone, Comrade Shehu Sani, is making frantic efforts to get the APC senate ticket. Our correspondent reports that the Senator is in a despondent mood following the failure of his bid to convince the Kaduna All Progressives Congress (APC) to give him a return ticket to the Senate in 2019. Checks in Kaduna and Abuja revealed that Senator Sani became more desperate as the APC Senate primaries hold this week. A source who has knowledge of the senator’s steps explained: “ He has recently recruited Kano Governor , Abdullahi Ganduje and Katsina Governor, Aminu Masari to intercede with President Buhari on his behalf. But this ran into the same obstacles his other emissaries have encountered.” Another source who also pleaded anonymity said, “ Before the reported interventions of the two governors, Senator Aliyu Wammako is said to have also spoken to the president on Shehu Sani’s behalf” “The problem all the interventions encountered is that Shehu Sani had gone too far in burning his bridges in Kaduna. It is said that a compendium of his comments since 2015 ridiculing Buhari himself, the APC and Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai had been circulated to key leaders. “This document showed that Shehu Sani does not hold even the President in high esteem. So his recent good-boy posture is being dismissed as just the desperate actions of a man who wants to remain in the Senate.” A party source said  that senior politicians are surprised that Shehu Sani expects his latest actions to be seen as genuine. Meanwhile, Comrade Shehu Sani has said that he is not desperate the APC senatorial ticket ahead of 2019 polls. Sani said the accusations against him in the media were false and baseless. Senator Sani’s Special Adviser, Comrade Suleiman Ahmed said, “On the issue of desperation,ask APC national chairman whether the senator is desperate. He is not desperate. Also, read the statement of APC national chairman on APC senators who did not decamp and are seeking re-election on the APC platform.”