The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday warned those it called impostors against submission of unauthorised names of candidates to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The party said any culprit arrested would face arrest and prosecution for forgery and stealing of funds derived from sale of fake nomination forms. The party disclosed that it is aware that such persons forged and sold various fake nomination forms, cornered the proceeds for their selfish gains and held illegal primaries. PDP, in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that it had officially submitted names of candidates for National Assembly elections to the INEC ahead of the 2019 general election. The party said it “notes with disdain moves by certain individuals to illegally submit unauthorized names from some purported primaries by dissident elements, notably in Ogun State. “The PDP is aware that such elements forged and sold various fake nomination forms, and cornered the proceeds for their selfish gains. “Those who unwittingly bought these fake nomination forms did not pass through the due process of screening and did not participate in primaries as officially conducted by the Electoral Committee set up by the National Working Committee.“The conduct of primaries and submission of names of candidate remain in the purview of the National Working Committee. Any other purported primaries by any state chapter or any other level of the party is absolutely illegal and of no consequence. “The PDP therefore warns, in the strongest possible term, that anybody who attempts to present any name from such illegal primaries as candidate of our party will face arrest and prosecution for forgery and stealing of funds derived from sale of fake nomination forms.” The PDP leadership, however, urged all its members and the general public to be calm, assuring that the rule of Law shall be strictly adhered to, particularly in all processes in their participation in the 2019 general election.