Dr Kayode Fayemi yesterday assumed office as the new governor of Ekiti State. This is just as his predecessor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, was yesterday grilled and detained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) following allegations of fraud and other financial crimes levelled against him. Fayose, who arrived at the Abuja head office of the EFCC at about 12:59 pm, was in company of the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike; former Aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, and his lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, among others. As at press time, Fayose is still being held by the EFCC where he is said to be cooperating with the operatives in giving vital information.  Meanwhile, speaking yesterday in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, at the inauguration of the new governor and his deputy, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, President Muhammadu Buhari said that the people of Ekiti State made the right choice by electing Fayemi as governor in the July 14, 2018 governorship poll in the state, saying the state will experience rapid development and reclaim its past glory under the new helmsman.The president noted that Fayemi served the people passionately during his first tenure between 2010-2014 and initiated projects which positively impacted the lives of the people. Buhari, who was represented at the event by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said Fayemi during the time ran a compassionate and people oriented government and made his mark in the areas of education, health and social security, among others. “I know Dr Fayemi very well. He has always cherished anything that has to do with the development of this state. As Ekiti governor between 2010 and 2014, he instituted some laudable projects that impacted positively on the lives of the people and this pavilion was one of them. “I know that he will do what is right to justify this mandate. I charge him not to relent in his efforts to serve Ekiti with passion, commitment and candour.” The president went on to list its support to the state government. He said, “The FG has given supports to states in the areas of bailouts, budget support, ecological funds and Paris Club refund, of which Ekiti was a beneficiary, “We have extended the standard rail project to Ekiti and the construction of the Federal Secretariat will soon be completed. The FG is also planning to dualise Ado-Akure road and reconstruct Ado-Ikare road for the use of our people. Construction of internal road at Federal University, Oye Ekiti, rehabilitation of Iwaraje-Efon raod,. We have also built another 133kva power source in Ekiti that will be commissioned soon. “As of today, 11,000 Ekiti indigenes are benefiting from the N-power and Cash conditional transfer programme of this administration. You have made the right choice in Ekiti and be prepared to return this government to power in 2019.From today, you will begin to have a new breath in Ekiti under the present government”. Earlier, Fayemi and Egbeyemi were sworn in after taking the oath of office and allegiance administered on them by the Chief Judge of the State, Justice Ayodeji Daramola. The governor also inspected the guard of honour after a police parade that ushered in his government.Addressing the people at the event, Governor Fayemi unveiled a four-pillar agenda which, he said, would cover agriculture and rural development, social investment, infrastructural development and knowledge economy entrenchment. He said his government would work hard to bring succour to the populace by removing the cankerworm of corruption that had eaten deep into the state’s fabrics under the PDP-led government of Governor Ayodele Fayose. Fayemi disclosed that all the finances of the last administration shall be reviewed but not in a vindictive manner, saying that this became imperative to ensure that the culture of prudence and financial propriety are brought to bear in the governance of the state. He lamented that the state was indebted to the tune of N170 billion, being loans taken to undertake some projects by the last administration, assuring that this won’t impede his government from delivering the dividends of democracy to the citizens. The former minister of mines and steel development stated that Ekiti under him would not slide and degenerate to the level of allowing school children to pay various taxes in their quest to receive formal education. He promised that his government would reinstate the N5,000 social security to the elderly and make tremendous positive impacts in the areas of agriculture, social investment and economy. Fayemi said, “In the last four years, Ekiti was governed by a rudderless, inept and egregiously corrupt government , which was led by those who deceived our people through the instrument of stomach infrastructure. “In this context, never again will Ekiti slip into the hands of those who knew nothing about governance. Never again shall we allow our school children to pay taxes; never again shall we abandon the burgeoning resources at Ikogosi Warm Spring to waste; never again shall we allow our judiciary to be debased by draconian government and never again shall the most educated state like Ekiti be apostle of stomach infrastructure that has made us a laughing stock . “In our quest for economic rejuvenation, our government shall invest heavily in youth in commercial agriculture (because Ekiti is basically agrarian), reactivate community based projects, tap into our tourist potential and ensure security of local and foreign investors.“We shall network with the federal government and other local and international bodies to bring dividends of democracy Ekiti people deserve to their doorsteps.” APC members, supporters as well as the admirers of the newly sworn in governor of the state came in their large numbers to attend the event held at the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion along the new Iyin road, Ado Ekiti. Dignitaries at the ceremony include former Lagos State Governor Ahmed Bola Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, National Security Adviser Babagana Monguno, Minister of Agriculture Audu Ogbeh, former Senate President Ken Nnamani, Ex-APC National Chairman John Oyegun and former Ekiti State governors, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Bamidele Olumilua. Governors at the event include Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), Akinwumi Ambode (Lagos), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi), among other Nigerians and diplomatic corps who graced the occasion.