The chairman of the LEADERSHIP Group, Sam Nda- Isaiah, yesterday added another feather to his cap as he was conferred with the chieftaincy title of Aare Baroyin of Akure Kingdom by the Deji of Akure, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi. Speaking after being invested with his traditional title amidst thunderous ovation, Nda-Isaiah described his new role as Aare Baroyin of Akure as a big responsibility and that he was ready to work with every member of the kingdom to achieve success in his new office. “I am humbled with this chieftaincy title conferred on me as the Aare Baroyin of Akure Kingdom. I am grateful and will be willing to pay my loyalty and service to the kingdom. “So, I am happy about this my new title and thank the Almighty God and the Kabiyesi for fishing me out for this title. “Of course, it is a big title that I have accepted and which comes with a big responsibility. I am now a son of Akure land, and not an ordinary son but member of this community. “I am very proud of the Deji and I know within my power I am sure we would all work together to achieve more success,” he said.  He pledged his unalloyed loyalty to the Akure Kingdom, saying that he would continue to propagate the rich cultural value and tradition of the Akure Kingdom using his media enterprise. The new Aare Baroyin further described the ancient town of Akure as one of the most culture-oriented kingdoms in Nigeria considering its heritage, pointing out that the town was a remarkable landmark judging by its history in the Yoruba race.  He explained that premium would be placed on the district customs and traditions of the ancient town, adding that conferring him with the title would spur him to do more for humanity.  Mr Nda-Isaiah described Africans as the most blessed race in the world, mostly the Yoruba race, because of their rich cultural endowment, a value that cannot be quantified.  The Aare Baroyin of Akure had earlier expressed his willingness to learn more about the cultural values and heritage of the Akure Kingdom.  “I am also sure that I will be told my exact duty and work about this title because I am willing to display my commitment to the cause of this kingdom. “I wish the entire kingdom long life and prosperity and I also know that the town is very peaceful, but I want to know more about the town and it cultural events,” he said. The rites for the title, the first in the history of the ancient kingdom, was performed on Mr. Nda-Isaiah by the Asamo of Akure, Chief Rotimi Fasakin, at the ceremony to end the two-week-long Ulefunta/Oyemekun Festival 2018.  The colourful ceremony which took place at the Deji’s expansive palace in Akure, the Ondo State capital, was performed amidst pomp and substance as dignitaries from all walks of life, including prominent sons and daughters of the ancient town, graced the occasion. Also, members of the Hausa community, attired in their usual traditional regalia, added glamour to the beautiful event with the melodious beats of their beautiful drums. The traditional chiefs from the Akure community also turned out in their numbers to honour the media mogul who is now the new face of the Yoruba Cultural Media Ambassador. On his part, the Deji of Akure Kingdom, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi said that the decision to confer the honorary chieftaincy title on Nda-Isaiah was due his tremendous contributions to the growth of the media industry in Nigeria.  Oba Aladelusi, who described the Leadership boss as a media guru that has made landmark achievements, said that as the new Aare of Baroyin of the Akure Kingdom, his position should be used to attract good things to the ancient land.  The monarch said the title, which is the first in the history of the ancient town, would go a long way to add new credibility to the media guru. He said, “We don’t just confer titles on people if such beneficiaries cannot justify such titles, but we are doing this today for Mr. Sam Nda-Isaiah; he is eminently qualified for it as the Aare Baroyin and that is why we deemed it fit to bestow it on him. “Akure town is beginning to change for the good and we now have some super-calibre set of people in this Akure Kingdom. “To have you as our son is a great one for us and we must thank you for accepting this title. You are now part of us and we will forever cherish you. We are happy to see you here and as the newest son of our town.  “So, you now have the key to enter anywhere in the town. Your new title is a powerful position in the ancient city and I know you would not regret accepting it”, the Deji added. Meanwhile, another prominent son of the Akure Kingdom, Prince Afolabi Obasuyi, was conferred with the traditional title of Agbaka of Akure community.  nt Nigerians like the former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida; former head of state, General Abdulsalami Abubakar; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu yesterday sent goodwill messages to the Deji of Akure Kingdom, His Royal Majesty, Oba Oguntoyinbo Aladelusi, Odundun II and the publisher of Leadership Newspaper, Sam Nda-Isaiah, on the Ulefunta Festival celebrated by the Akure Kingdom and the installation of the newspaper mogul as the Aare Baroyin of Akure. The messages came on the heels of Akure, the ancient city capital of Ondo State, going agog yesterday as virtually all associations, clubs and groups in the city gathered to celebrate the festival. While Babangida said he was “happy to note” that Nda-Isaiah’s “services for a strong and united Nigeria are being recognised far and wide,” Dogara said the title was “well deserved” and Tinubu added, “You are today a chieftaincy title holder in Yorubaland” and “by virtue of this, you are a member of the traditional council in Akureland, which comes with its own responsibilities.” The leaders, who felicitated with Nda-Isaiah for having been found worthy of being bestowed such a title by the paramount ruler of the kingdom, also wished the Deji and the people of Akure well in the celebration of the festival. The festival had commenced with the Deji going on a seven-day traditional period of seclusion, with homage paid to him by all the different masquerades in the kingdom and an anniversary lecture delivered by the Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah. The second wave of the celebration had kicked off on Friday with the gathering of the who-is-who in the kingdom, as well as friends of the people of Akure, called “A Night with the Deji” where a launch for the completion of the construction of the Oba’s palace was made. Earlier yesterday, the traditional rites for the installation of Nda-Isaiah were completed with funfare with the newspaper publisher appreciating the monarch and people of Akure kingdom for finding him worthy of title. The carnival held on Saturday was heralded with pomp and ceremony as various groups in their colourful attire gathered at the Democracy Park of the Oba’s Market to pay homage to the king who was driven into the arena in an ancient cart. In his remarks, the Deji thanked the people of the kingdom for their love for him and the kingdom in general, and enjoined them to work for the progress and development of the capital city of Ondo State. Also present at the event was the governor of Ondo State, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, who represented by the Secretary to the State Government; the deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi; Mr. Sunday Abegunde; General Igbayilola Akintunde, and other traditional rulers and captains of industry.