The Kano State House of Assembly yesterday constituted a seven-man committee to investigate the authenticity of the video recording of alleged bribe taking by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. The video of Ganduje allegedly receiving a bribe from a contractor was published by an online newspaper, Daily Nigerian. The committee was constituted following a motion of urgent public importance filed by the lawmaker representing Warawa constituency, Alhaji Labaran Madari, and seconded by his counterpart, Baffa Danagundi, who represents Kano Municipal constituency. LEADERSHIP recalls that an online news website, Daily Nigerian, had released the initial video to the Nigerian public on Sunday hours after a second batch was released, with the first video allegedly showing the governor receiving up to $230,000 from Kano State public works contractors for the construction and allocation of stalls in a new market. However, the governor has stoutly denied the allegations contained in the video, first saying it was ‘cloned’ and later threatening a lawsuit against the publisher of the medium. Speaking during the plenary, the majority leader, Alhaji Baffa Babba Danagundi, advised the executive arm of government to halt its plan to file a case before a court of law on the alleged video clip, noting that the state Assembly had the constitutional mandate to investigate issues like this. The matter, which gained the support of the legislators, was deliberated on the floor of the House presided over by Speaker Kabiru Rurum. Speaking while ruling on the deliberation, Rurum urged the committee to investigate the matter and submit its reports within one month. The committee, which is headed by Danagundi, has the chief whip Madari, Zubairu Massu, Garba Ya’u Gwarmai, Abdulaziz Garba Gafasa and Abubakar Uba Galadima as members, while Mujitaba Aminu would serve as the committee secretary. …We Can’t Take Action Against Kano Gov Yet– APC Meanwhile, the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has said it cannot take any action on a video, which appeared to show the Sokoto State governor taking a bribe from bribe a contractor, because the matter is in court. APC spokesperson, Lanre Issa-Onilu, said, “The matter is in court; the governor has taken the medium to court. We cannot comment on a matter that is already before a law court.”