The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of Dr Bello Ingawa from Katsina State, and a retired Federal Permanent Secretary, as Chairman, Federal Civil Service Commission. The confirmation, which was through a voice vote, followed presentation of report of the Committee on Establishment and Public Service by its Chairman, Sen. Emmanuel Paulker at plenary. The Senate also confirmed nine commissioners for new appointment and three other for renewal of appointment. The commissioners for new appointment are: Moses Ngbale-Adamawa, Waziri Ngurno-Borno, Bello Babura-Jigawa, Ahmed Sarna-Kebbi, Iyabode Odulate-Yusuf-Ogun, Shehu Danyaya-Niger. Others are: Fatai Adebayo-Oyo, Ejoh Chukwuemeka-Anambra, Joe Poroma-Rivers, while the comissioners for renewal of appointments are: Ibrahim Mohammed-Kaduna, Prof. Aminu Sheidu-Kogi and Simon Etim-Akwa Ibom. While presenting report of the screening, paulker said the committee interviewed the nominees, scrutinised their credentials and found them fit for confirmation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the renewal of Mr Simon Etim’s appointment generated debate following Sen. Rose Oko’s (PDP-Cross River) objection to his nomination. Oko said Cross River and Akwa Ibom like other states were paired up in terms of appointment. She said in the past four appointments, spanning 20 years, appointments for the two states had been on a rotational basis of five years each. She argued that the rotation was sustained until the renewal of Etim came up, adding that the whole Cross River was agitated over the re-appointment of Etim rather than a new appointment from Cross River. According to her, the norm has been broken, appealing with the senate to wade into the matter. After much debate, the senate went ahead to confirm him. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, congratulated the chairman and members of the commission, wishing them a successful tenure. In a similar development, the Senate confirmed Lanre Gbajabiamila as Director-General, National Lottery Regulatory Commission. The Senate had in May, 2017, asked Gbajabiamila to stay away from office until his appointment was confirmed. Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, gave the order after listening to the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan, on alleged assumption of duty by Gbajabiamila without Senate approval. (NAN) 