The Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, yesterday threatened to expose his opponents’ dark secrets should he be pushed to the wall. Tambuwal made this threat when he was receiving a hero’s welcome to the state after coming second in the just concluded presidential primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), adding that he would never desist from his good agenda for the state. The governor warned those he accused of trying to smear his name unjustly to desist from their actions or he would be forced expose some of their secret atrocities. According to him, he has decided to remain calm because some leaders had appealed to him from the onset and he promised to keep to his word. He, however, warned: “I will be forced to open cans of worms should I be tempted further. Therefore, let them be advised that they should allow the sleeping dog lie to avoid some people running away from the state even before the general elections.” While calling on the youths to embrace politics without bitterness, Tambuwal told them that those bent on using them for thuggery do not mean well for their future. “Prior to my becoming the governor, all of you are witnesses to the state of ‘areaboyism’ in the state, but with your cooperation, we were able to curtail the menace. Therefore, I am still appealing to all of you, the youths, not to allow yourselves to be used by anybody. I am appealing to all politicians in the state to do their politicking with decorum. They must bear in mind that politics is about development and the people. “And I am assuring you today that, come 2019, Sokoto will freely vote for those leaders that mean well for them and the future of their children. Let them be reminded that Sokoto will not vote for leaders that destroy our youths,” he said. Both the Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar III airport and the Sokoto State Government House were filled up with hordes of PDP supporters who trooped out to receive Governor Tambuwal back to the state. Tambuwal, who came second in the recent Presidential primary elections of the PDP held in Port Harcourt is returned back to the state yesterday, Saturday. Political Allies Shun Fayose’s Party As He Vacates Govt House Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, has said he will vacate the official residence of the governor today, 48 hours ahead of official handing over and inauguration on October 16. Fayose said he would hand over the Government House to the State Head of Service today. However, appointees, friends and political associates shunned Fayose’s last dinner party held Friday night. The dinner party by the outgoing Ekiti State governor to round off his tenure in office was shunned by the expected crowd of party faithful and political appointees. According to reports, the dinner which ought to have begun at 7pm did not record up to 20 of the expected guests till about midnight. Only journalists, armed security men, protocol officers and band boys of a musical group contracted to perform at the ceremony were present as at 11pm. Those conspicuously absent at the valedictory dinner were members of the state House of Assembly and political appointees of the governor, commissioners and permanent secretaries. A Government House source said that many of those invited were unhappy with the departing governor for various reasons. The source, who pleaded anonymity disclosed that aside from the governor who paid himself and his deputy lump sums as severance package, including vehicles, none of the appointees was paid their entitlements. “Besides, all the 16 local government chairmen are battling to save their jobs in the court, as information was rife on Friday that the incoming governor had concluded arrangement to dissolve the councils anytime soon after his swearing-in on Tuesday. ”The comment of the governor earlier in the day was shocking to most political appointees when he told them that whatever anyone of them may likely encounter in the hands of the new governor should be taken calmly as such was a price of leadership,” he said. Commenting on the development, one of the personal domestic staffers of the outgoing governor, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said he was not in any way disappointed by the people’s attitude as it is common with human beings. He recalled that when the governor was still very much in power, thousands of people would always answer his call at the slightest notice such that the venue of any event organised by him was always overcrowded. Meanwhile, the outgoing governor pressed on with his plan to leave office today, two days ahead of the Tuesday handover date. He conducted Bisi Fayemi, wife of the governor-elect of Ekiti State, round the Ekiti Government House yesterday. Fayose took Fayemi’s wife, who is the chair of the inauguration committee to usher in her husband’s administration in the state, as well as members of the inauguration committee, round the Government House yesterday. The outgoing governor wrote on his twitter handle: “I am presently taking Dr Kayode Fayemi’s wife, Erelu Bisi, and other members of the inauguration committee round the Govt House. Tomorrow, I will hand over the Govt House to the Head of Service.” Before the aborted dinner, the governor handed over the instruments of office to the Head of Service, Dr Gbenga Faseluka, at a special valedictory State Executive Council meeting at the new Governor’s Office in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. Fayose said history would be kind to him due to the way he managed the resources in trust for the people of the state, adding that he would be available to answer questions on how he ruled the state anytime he is called upon to do so. Fayose said, “What has a beginning must have an end. It is not the number of years spent but the quantity and quality of achievements. “I thank the people of the state for their cooperation and urge them to extend same to the incoming administration. I’m a man who came, saw and conquered. I can’t finish all. I have done my best. “History will be kind on me as a man who has given his best to the people. I will remember all for your support, I bear no grudges against anyone.” He also inaugurated the new State Speaker’s Lodge named after Kolawole Oluwawole who was impeached as Speaker on Thursday by the state lawmakers and replaced with Adeniran Alagbada. Fayose urged the deposed Speaker to see his impeachment as the price of leadership.