The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has disowned audio recording of a conversation currently circulating in the social media in which the acting Chairman of the Commission, Ibrahim Magu, purportedly made comments to the effect that, nothing will happen peradventure Ayo Fayose, former governor of Ekiti State, dies in custody. EFCC spokesperson,  Wilson Uwujaren,  explained that the audio tape did not disclose the place where the conversation occurred and the person that Magu was supposedly talking to. He noted that “the audio recording is fake as the comments did not emanate from the Chairman of the EFCC.” Uwujaren noted that the Commission “wishes to alert the general public about an audio recording of a conversation currently circulating in the social media in which the Acting Chairman of the Commission, Ibrahim Magu, purportedly made comments to the effect that, nothing will happen peradventure Ayo Fayose, former governor of Ekiti State, dies in custody. “Interestingly, the audio tape did not disclose the place where the conversation occurred and the person that Magu was supposedly talking to. “Members of the public are advised to disregard this disingenuous creation as it is the handiwork of mischief makers intent on distracting the Commission from the serious work of wrapping up the investigation into the corruption allegations against the former governor of Ekiti state. “The audio recording is fake as the comments did not emanate from the Chairman of the EFCC. Purveyors of this fake news especially a former spokesperson of a leading political party are warned to desist.” Meanwhile,  the Nigeria Police Force called on the members of the public to ignore and disregard the video or any insinuation on the Facebook page from ‘The Due Process Advocate’ as ill-motive, mischievous, misinformation aimed at casting aspersions on the hard-earned integrity and credibility of Police Officers and Men. Force PRO,  Jimoh Moshood noted that “the attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to a post on a Facebook page of a group with insignia: The Due Process Advocate and a video peddling on Social Media by the convener of same group, one Emeka Ephraim Ugwuonye. “The Nigeria Police Force sees the video and publication as a desperate and deliberate attempt to incite members of the Public against the Force. “Consequently, the said Emeka Ephraim Ugwuonye is presently facing criminal prosecution and was arraigned at the Magistrate Court 3, Wuse Zone 6, AMAC, FCT, yesterday.”