President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senator representing Cross River Central and the All Progressives Congress (APC) 2019 governorship candidate, John Enoh and other dignitaries attended the ‘God of All Wonders Crusade’ with the general superintend of Deeper Christian Life Ministry worldwide, Pastor William  Kumuyi  as guest minister at the National Stadium in Abuja. The crusade, which held on Sunday, was organised by the Deeper Life Bible Church, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Buhari was represented by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, while Osinbajo was represented by Rev Isaac Peter. The two leaders were welcomed with loud applause by the participants. Others who were present include the deputy governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Dr Obadiah Mailafiya; Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, Boboye Oyeyemi, represented by the Road Commander, Tunde Akpata; Chairman, Christian Association of Nigerian, CAN, Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Chapter, Rev Dr Jonah Samson; Chairman Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, PFN, FCT Chapter, Rev Dr Isaac Omolafe, Arch Bishop Prof Powers, national chairman of FCS, Elder Joshua Maikori Audu. The Crusade also had in attendance some State Overseers of Deeper Life Bible Church, Pastor Raymond Egunjobi (Kogi), Pastor Toyin Araromi (Niger), Pastor Andrew Osagie (Plateau), Pastor Christopher Ogbagi (Benue), Pastor Femi Ade (Nassarawa) and the host, Pastor Joshua Esho (FCT). Pastor Kumuyi who preached at the crusade, titled his message, “The ABC of Receiving and Retaining God’s Wonders”, subdivided it into three parts;  Ask, Believe, Come To Receive; Act, Become, Confess to Realise; and Abide, Belong, Continue To Retain. He said the participants at the crusade need to turn away from sin and abide in Christ after receiving forgiveness of sin, which he added that without repentance their expected blessings from God cannot just come into their lives. He assured them of God’s freedom from the bondage of sin, Satan and sickness. “He (Jesus Christ) will set you free. The question is what steps do I take, what move do I make and what is the thing I’m supposed to do so that the wonder of salvation, healing and deliverance will take place in my life,” he said. He also assured participants of God’s wonders in their lives, and called on them to surrender their lives to Jesus. He also prayed miracle prayers for them.