The chairman of Amanbo China, Liao Xuhui, has commended LEADERSHIP Newspapers Ltd for enhancing China-Nigeria cooperation in the setting up of Amanbo Nigeria, a business-to-business-consumer (B2B2C) platform and portal that would enable Nigerian exporters to trade with Chinese importers and vice versa. Xuhui made the statement when he visited LEADERSHIP Newspaper’s corporate office in Abuja yesterday, where he stressed the benefit of Amanbo China for the small-scale business people in Nigeria. He said that the Chinese e-commerce platform was geared towards creating millions of jobs for Nigeria. “This partnership holds tremendous opportunities for Nigeria in terms of creating thousands jobs, if not millions, as core and support services to the platforms such as warehousing all over the country, logistics, distributorships, customer services, shipping services, credit facilities for small businesses etc. “The estimated trade potential of the platform within the first three years given the current trade relationship with China is $500million. This is expected to continue to grow, creating millions of jobs for Nigerians,” Xuhui said. Amanbo is the B2B cross-border e-commerce platform that focuses on Africa. It was established by Shenzhen Right Net Tech Co., Ltd. in 2015, based on its 17 years of experience in China-Africa trade. It has many functions, such as online mall, online transaction, inquiry processing, business information, order management and so on, with  a combined China and African local professional management team, allowing users to easily reach China and Africa cross-border for wholesale, procurement and other transaction needs. As of May 2017, the number of platform users has reached nearly 10 million yuan and the monthly turnover has reached 30 million yuan. Sometime last year, the Chinese ambassador, in his bid to bolster the trade volume between China and Nigeria and deepen the Nigeria-China partnership, invited the chairman of LEADERSHIP Group, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah and the managing directors of Huawei and CGCOC in Nigeria to discuss his idea. He then requested the managing directors to link credible and relevant Chinese partners to the chairman of LEADERSHIP to create a joint venture that would enable and facilitate trade between the two countries. Together the Chinese investors linked up the chairman of LEADERSHIP and the chairman of Amanbo China, a company with substantial trade interests in Africa. Amanbo China is already in some African countries especially in East Africa. KhromeMonkey Limited was then conceived and registered in Nigeria to execute this idea with support from Huawei and CGCOC. LEADERSHIP Group owns the majority shares in KhromeMonkey with some Chinese investors taking up minority shares. Several meetings were held in Nigeria and China with the owners of Amanbo China and a Business to Business to Consumer (B2B2C) platform was created that would enable Nigerian exporters to trade with Chinese importers and vice versa. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been executed between KhromeMonkey and Shenzhen Right Net Technology Company Ltd, owned by the owner of Amanbo China, to establish Amanbo Nigeria. KhromeMonkey owns majority shares in Amanbo Nigeria. The partnership brings tremendous opportunities for Nigeria in terms of creating thousands, if not millions, of jobs as core and support services to the platform like warehousing all over the country, logistics, distributorships, customer services, shipping services etc. Nigerian exporters would find it much easier to find Chinese buyers of their wares on the platform and Amanbo Nigeria would also provide the much needed guarantees for Chinese manufacturers to send goods to Nigeria with a promissory note of payment from Amanbo Nigeria and vice versa. Amanbo Nigeria would also make it possible for Nigerian businesses to fully derive the benefits of the recently signed Nigeria-China currency deal.