A major shakeup has rocked the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC),  following a barrage of unsatisfactory report about some senior officials of the Corps, allegedly  aiding and abetting vandalism and oil theft, particularly in the South -South/ South-East. The Corps Commandant General,  Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu who expressed shock and disappointment at the discovery according to a statement by the Corps spokesman,  Emmanuel Okeh threatened to flush out  Commandants  and other high ranking officers found wanting. The Commandant General who announced the shake-up in which about  six Commandants and two  Assistant Commandants Generals changed positions, said a  posting order via NSCDC/NHQ/5.002/Vol.XV111/221 that the redeployment takes immediate effect. The NSCDC boss who spat fire during an emergency meeting   with Commandants of the South-South States comprising of Rivers, Delta, Edo, Bayelsa, Akwa-Ibom and Cross River States over  what he termed as embarrassing allegations of aiding and abetting act of vandalism and illegal bunkering promised to expose those that would be indicted. He statement has it that to prove his point,  a monitoring team from the Headquarters  has been set up to thoroughly investigate, supervise and monitor activities of the the aforementioned states to fish out the bad eggs. The statement  explains that , “As a fallout of the meeting and with the approval of the Hon Minister of interior, the Commandant General therefore carried out a redeployment exercise to reposition the organisation.” It reads partly,   “due to recent development in the security circle as it affects the Corps mandate in the South -South and South -East regions, it has become necessary to re-organise and re-strategise for operational efficiency and better service delivery”. According to the statement, Dr Ahmed Audi, Assistant Commandant General in charge of the Civil Defence College of Peace and Disaster management, Katsina State has been redeployed to Zone C Bauchi as the Zonal Commander. Others affected are Commandants Obiageli Obiajulu Rachael has been moved from Akwa Ibom State to Anambra Command, Bello Ale from National Headquarters Abuja to Akwa Ibom as the new State Commandant. Dr Benito Eze former Abia State Commandant is to take over as the New Commandant of Delta State; Barr Nwannukwu Nnamdi of  Zone F to resume as Abia State Commandant while Sam Ego Ezeagbogho former Delta State Commandant is  to resume at zone E. Owerri. The CG therefore ordered the immediate disbandment of all road blocks mounted by officers and men  of the Corps,  instructing sternly that  only those on a joint task force with other security agencies were permitted to do so. e statement stated that,  “ if reports  contrary to the order was received, Commandants of such state would  be sanctioned. The Civil Defence boss reiterated the need for vigorous pursuance of the Corps statutory mandate without looking elsewhere for illegal duties. He  warned that the Corps integrity must not be compromised given the fact that it is charged basically with the protection of Critical National Asset and Infrastructure. He asked them to,  “Go back and make amends where necessary, be committed and discipline in all ramifications because henceforth, i will not tolerate any non-performing officer”.