The Kaduna State Police Command yesterday said no fewer than 55 people were killed and 22 others arrested over the recent crises in Kasuwan Magani in Kajuru local government area of the state. The state commissioner of police, Ahmad Abdul-Rahman, disclosed this while briefing newsmen in Kaduna yesterday. Abdul-Rahaman said when the command was alerted to the incidents, he immediately dispatched teams of mobile and conventional policemen as well as Operation Yaki agents to restore normalcy in the area. The CP noted that the command also engaged youth leaders, traditional and religious leaders with a view to forestalling future occurrence. He assured that the situation had been brought under control, and warned that the command will not condone acts of lawlessness. According to him, the command is working in synergy with sister security agencies to maintain law and order across the state.  The commissioner commended the Kaduna State government for imposing a curfew which, according to him, had doused tension in the area. “Anybody that has a hand in this crisis must face full wrath of the law. We will not allow lawlessness. We remain committed to saving lives and property of every citizens,” he said He appealed to the public to continue to live in peace, and assist the command with every useful information. Earlier, Governor Nasir el-Rufai had visited the Kasuwan Magani market to sympathise with the victims and assess the situation. The governor warned that the security agencies would deal with anybody causing trouble in the area. He, however, urged the people of Kasuwan Magani to embrace peace and harmony despite their religious and ethnic diversity. The governor added that government would not spare those who instigate crisis in the state. The Kaduna State government had imposed a 24-hour curfew on the Kasuwan Magani Community following the violent skirmishes by hoodlums. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Peace Commission has called on the residents of Kasuwan Magani to remain calm following the violent skirmishes in the area by the hoodlums. In a statement issued by Barrister Priscilla Ankut, chief executive officer of the commission, she sympathised with the victims and urged the public to work with the government and the security agencies by promptly reporting any suspicious actions that will threaten peace and security. The statement reads: “Around 5.30pm on Thursday 18th October 2018, the peace and security of Kasuwan Magani town in Kajuru local government of Kaduna State was disturbed by the activities of some hoodlums who caused pandemonium in the market area. The action of the hoodlums triggered fear and anxiety that further led to threat to peace involving the looting of properties and attempts to transform the skirmishes into ethno-religious disturbances. “The Kaduna State Peace Commission conveys its deepest sympathy to all those that were affected in one way or the other by the violence. The Commission is appealing to all the people of the area to remain calm, respect law and order and refrain from all actions that will lead to violence.”