Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State, has denied holding any secret meeting with the presidential candidate of PDP, Abubakar Atiku, in Dubai. A statement signed by Yakubu Lamai, director general, Strategic Communication and Press Affairs to the governor, described the online page “NASARAWA MIRROR” as a ‘conduit pipe for fake news”. Nasarawa Mirror, had reported that, Governor Al-makura, held a closed door meeting in Dubai, UAE, with PDP’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar over the 2019 general elections and that Governor Al-makura “has agreed to work for Atiku to ensure he wins the presidential poll in the state”. Lamai said, “For the avoidance of doubt, we wish to categorically state that this TISSUE OF LIES being peddled online by NASARAWA MIRROR like many other instances of blatantly biased and unsubstantiated reportage, confirms our belief beyond reasonable doubt that NASARAWA MIRROR is nothing other than a purveyor and conduit pipe for fake news and propaganda whose corporate goal is to instigate public acrimony and political confusion in Nasarawa State. “How come on the day NASARAWA MIRROR will allege that Governor Al-makura was attending a fictitious meeting in Dubai with Atiku Abubakar in the company of APC gubernatorial candidate in Nasarawa State, the same Engr. A.A. Sule was seen on social media visiting Barrister Sani Bawa in Nasarawa-Toto to console him over the loss of his mother? How is it possible for Engr. A.A. Sule can be in Dubai at the same-time, at the same time he is in Nigeria?” “Looking at the Group Photo put up by NASARAWA PHOTO to show evidence of the alleged meeting, one must ask is the former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Odigie Oyegun also in talks with Atiku? And is governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State also in talks with Atiku? Have both Oyegun and Masari also agreed to work for Atiku? “Why would Atiku propose a deputy governorship candidate for the PDP in Nasarawa State, if he is already in league with the APC? Or is Atiku also working against his own party PDP? “How come it is only NASARAWA MIRROR that reported this FAKE NEWS? How did the Nasarawa Mirror reporter spirit himself into this closed door meeting? “We have noticed that where the activities of APC and the government of Nasarawa State is concerned, 90% of the reportage on NASARAWA MIRROR are presented selectively and in half- truths with the aim of demonising governor Umaru Tanko Al-makura and the APC,” he said.