A video circulating online has shown Kano state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje allegedly receiving a bribe to the tune of about $5million from contractors in the state. The video which was released by an online medium claimed it was a sting operation that captured the governor on camera collecting the bribe at different occasions. The medium claimed that multiple contractors who spoke with it on the condition of anonymity said the governor personally received  15 to 25 per cent kickbacks for every project executed in the state. It said the sting operation to capture the governor on camera began two years ago when one of the contractors agreed to a request by the media outfit to plant spy camera on his kaftan lapel while offering the bribes. Part of the report noted that, “During about 10 months efforts to capture the bribe giving/taking scenes, the governor’s face and body were clearly captured in nine clips, while six others did not clearly reveal the governor’s face. About $5 million were delivered to the governor during the sting operation”. “One of the contractors who preferred not to be named said the reason he collaborated with the medium was to expose corruption and bring sanity to the country. “The contractor stated that if his aim was to blackmail or extort the governor, he would have used the videos to get over a billion settlement or force the governor to pay the hundreds of millions of naira the state was owing to his company or force him to pay back all the money he paid as kickbacks. We believe if public office holders are exposed, there will be sanity in the system.” In its response to the video, the Kano government claimed that it was cloned. “We wish to state that there is no iota of truth to these allegations and if indeed there is any such alleged video, it is at best cloned. “The government of Kano state is taking this matter seriously, and will exploit every appropriate and legal avenue to ensure that it gets to the root of the matter and the perpetrators are brought to book,” the Kano state commissioner for information, Muhammad Garba, said in a statement.