The presidential candidate of the MAJA party, Prof. Mercy Funmilayo Adesanya-Davies, yesterday asked former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Alh Atiku Abubakar to step down for her. The female presidential aspirant said since her party and the PDP ate membrrs of Coalition of United Political Parties(CUPP)there is the need for the emergence of a candidate for the coalition.She said that Atiku should step down for her on the account of age and being a woman, saying that the odd favours young candidates for the 2019 general elections. She added that since men have ‘failed’ Nigeria, they should give women a chance to emerge as the nation’s next president and return it back to path of progress. According to a statement made available to newsmen via email, the MAJA Presidential candidate made the call when he received students on courtesy call on her on the World Student’s Day celebration. The students delegation came from the office of the SUG, Vice President, Farida Balogun at the University of Abuja, in collaboration with the National Female Students Association of Nigeria (NFSAN), Confederation of Nigerian Youths in Abuja (CUNY) and the apex of Student’s body in Nigeria, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). The statement added: ‘ The main topic of their discussion was on the prospect of her emergence on the CUPP platform as she hopes to be the next president of Nigeria in 2019, having received the National Association of Nigerian Students’ NANS Outstanding Leadership in 2018 as well as the students’ endorsement. “ Adesanya- Davies was quoted to have said” I will in fact seize this opportunity to appeal to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to kindly step down for me at the CUPP as President Buhari of APC steps aside, because this time indeed is “a-woman-youth-academician ticket” and a tip to the “Middle-belt Christian Nigeria” currently bearing all the brunt of killings in the North” and that is where I come in. “We are losing our children and husbands, the women are crying, the youths dying and the men should obliged us for once in 2019 to manage it.” A trial will convince all as am ready with my Advanced PMA-Restructuring Agenda as lady Flora Shaw Lugard who named Nigeria, to take the country to the next necessary level. “You can trust that “I’ll seek the ideal international assistance to end insecurity in Nigeria as a woman (A man with a womb) by the grace of God Almighty. Sincerely speaking, our men have failed us and we women and the youths should be given the opportunity as we are all in trouble in Nigeria.” “I am pleased CUPP has said, “they would not render smaller parties irrelevant when the time comes,” as every candidate should be ready and willing to step down and support a sole candidate in order to defeat the APC/Muhammad Buhari government as a just course. Nigerians have never been so down-cast and the nation polarised as it currently is with people suffering in abject poverty. “The CUPP now has Prof. Mercy Funmilayo Davies (PMA-CHOICE), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Donald Duke and others as candidates to feed in after the recently concluded primaries.I am prepared to give the political battle a feminine touch and strategy through which I expect to spring a surprise to win the presidential election by the grace of God when obliged by CUPP; as I said on January 1st., 2018 on my declaration as the first candidate for 2019 presidential election.”