Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Friday ordered the immediate dissolution of the boards of government agencies, parastatals and corporations in the state. This came as the Ekiti indigenes in diaspora advised the governor to carry them along in government activities and bring them closer to his government. The governor in a statement issued by the Secretary to the State Government, Hon. Biodun Oyebanji in Ado Ekiti on Friday said the dissolution does not affect the statutory boards. The statement directed the Chairmen of the affected boards of the agencies to hand over to the most senior officer in their respective agencies. ‘’The Government appreciates members of these boards for the services they have rendered to the state. Composition of new boards will be announced at a later date,’’ he said. According to him, such would help the newly inaugurated administration in running an all-inclusive administration and prevent alienation of the elites based abroad. Meantime, the Coordinator of Ekiti Coalition for Change, United States of America, Mr. Samuel Ayodele, in a statement from Washington DC on Friday, said time has come for Fayemi to explore the opportunities available to the state all over the world in solving some of the problems confronting the people. Ayodele lauded Fayemi for his commitment to the development of the state, saying the Ekiti indigenes resident in United States of America are ready to support developmental strides of his administration, for Ekiti to rise to stardom in all spheres. The Coalition’s leader stated that Ekiti in diaspora backed Fayemi’s interest in reviewing all the financial dealings undertaken by past administration, advising that such should be carried out with open mind and in manner devoid of vindictiveness. He said: “We quite appreciated the giant strides put up by Fayemi in ensuring that the developmental indexes of our dear state change for better. We studied the projects executed by his government between 2010 and 2014 and we never doubted his competence and administrative astuteness to be able to deliver this time. “In 2010 when His Excellency, Dr. Fayemi came as a neophyte in government, he delivered  democratic dividends to Ekiti people making our dear state to rise meteorically on the developmental ranking  and created a new impression that the state has the capacity to lead even with lean resources. “Even in the four years of Mr. Ayodele Fayose’s government, Dr Fayemi was being fondly remembered via his programmes like the Youth in Commercial Agriculture that employed over 1,500 commercial farmers, the N5,000 social security scheme  to elderly among other landmark schemes that impacted positively on the people’s lives. “But making Ekiti great depends largely on how the human resources available to it can be harnessed to bring prosperity. It is on this note that we are appealing that our people in USA, Europe, Asia and other parts of the globe should be carried along in the running of government.’’ 