The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) yesterday, described the protest by presidential aspirants and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the party’s loss of the September 22 governorship election in Osun State as a charade and cheap propaganda staged to hoodwink Nigerians into voting the party back to power in the 2019 polls. The group advised the opposition to approach the tribunal instead of looking for cheap popularity in the name of protest against the Osun governorship poll, in which the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Gboyega Oyetola, defeated the PDP candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke. In a statement issued by its director of Communications and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the BCO said the PDP and its presidential aspirants are aware that they have lost the 2019 elections already; hence, “the reason for the weeping and wailing called protest.” Urging Nigerians to disregard a party that ruined the country with monumental corruption for 16 years, Ibrahim warned that voting for the PDP in 2019 would spell a more grievous disaster for Nigeria. He said, “They have regrouped and are coming back with the same old antics to finish Nigeria. We hope the citizens are wise enough to reject the PDP and their conspiracy against the people of Nigeria for the second time. They ruined the country for 16 years, and beaten back for less than four years, they have regrouped. Nigerians must beware of this plot to wield the country back to the era of monumental corruption. “They have realised that Nigerians are no longer interested in their lies and false propaganda. These jokers don’t need to tell us who destroyed or who is destroying Nigeria because we know where the journey started and where it is today. The earlier they know this, the better for them. “They are labouring under a delusion. They are all suffering from the worst form of disengagement trauma as a result of the acute fear of imminent defeat and the end of the political career of many of them and they know it. Buhari is the president Nigerians want and will remain so till 2023. That is a fact and that fact scares them to death. Well, they should all get used to it.” Urging the PDP to approach the tribunal instead of resorting to protests, Ibrahim said, “They know the rules; there is a tribunal and the tribunal has already given an order asking INEC not to tamper with the documents of the election. After the tribunal, they can even go on appeal and they know very well that this is the only way they can get their grievances addressed. The road show can’t and won’t give them the ticket but we know it (the protest) is to achieve an ulterior motive, which is to return a corrupt regime to power.” The BCO called on the attorney general of the federation, the inspector general of police and director general of DSS to investigate Thursday’s protest by the PDP leaders and ensure that those it described as “the truck conveners,” are brought to book.