In a desperate move to wrest power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led by President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 general elections, three political parties, namely Peoples Trust (PT) Alliance of New Nigeria (ANN) and African Democratic Congress (ADC) formed by Olusegun Obasanjo, on Saturday, sealed what they termed a strategic alliance and transformed into a new party called Alliance for Peoples Trust (APT) at the national convention held in Lagos. The exercise, which was attended by national officers of PT and ANN and witnessed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) later produced Gbenga Olawepo-Hassim as the new APT presidential candidate. Olawepo, who has already picked the presidential ticket of ANN, emerged as APT flag bearer, after Funke Obafemi Awolowo, the granddaughter of the sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who was the sole presidential aspirant on PT platform announced her withdrawal from the race. The exercise, which was also the first ever national convention of PT, equally witnessed the change of the party logo to a yellow/white/green flag containing two raised fingers in the middle. Olawepo Hassim, who was later presented, handed over the flag of the party as its flag bearer. And in his acceptance speech, lauded Funke for the singular act, describing her as a worthy granddaughter of the sage. He also commended the APT national chairman, Mr Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) and the founding national chairman of ANN, Dr J. Osi Samuels, for putting a platform that was out to make Nigeria realise her dream of a better country. The newly elected APT presidential candidate, lamented that those ruling the country now were mere beneficiaries of the struggle to liberate the country from the iron grip of the military, but which they did not participate in like he did, alongside some people, including the late Chima Ubani. Giving an insight into what sought of programmes he was set to implement if voted into office come 2019, Hassim said he was poised to build a Nigeria of equal opportunity, with jobs made available to all in need of them and a Nigeria that would support the dreams and aspirations of her people.”