…Pro Shehu Sani’s Group Commend PMB, APC Over Ticket The Zonal leadership of the All Progressives Congress(APC) Kaduna central senatorial district has described the attempted exclusion of senatorial aspirants from the list of aspirants cleared to contest the primaries as shocking. In a statement issued by Aminu Jibo,
Zonal Chairman, APC Kaduna central senatorial district said the zone has totally rejected the automatic party tickets reportedly given to the incumbent senator Shehu Sani ahead of 2019 general polls. The statement further noted that,there was no basis for not clearing the senatorial aspirants in the zone to contest the primaries to select the APC’s candidate to represent Kaduna Central in the Senate. APC said:”The Zonal Leadership of the APC in Kaduna Central Senatorial District is shocked by the attempted exclusion of aspirants from our zone from the list of aspirants cleared to contest the primaries. In our view, it is undemocratic to prevent our party members from making a democratic choice from the vibrant list of aspirants who have put themselves forward. We are aware that five of our members purchased and submitted expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the Senate primaries in our zone. It beggars belief that Shamsudeen Shehu Giwa, Uba Sani, Mohammed Sani Saleh and Usman Ibrahim were all not cleared. Only one of the five aspirants was cleared. This is a naked effort to foist a candidate on our zone, and we cannot accept this reckless act of impunity.” “The notion of automatic ticket contravenes the Constitution of the APC. In the weeks leading to the primaries, the leaders of the APC denied nurturing any such plans to subvert the party’s constitution and reward the most flagrant acts of misconduct, indiscipline and disloyalty. Were we wrong to have believed their assurances? As members of the APC, we cannot be expected to condone conduct that violates party spirit and wantonly breaches the right of loyal members. Therefore, we call on the APC national leadership to immediately reverse this act of injustice in the interest of our party, its reputation and its integrity” If this unjust action is not promptly reversed, then loyal party members in Kaduna Central will have no option but to take appropriate action to protect the APC and its democratic credentials” the statement said.
Also,the APC Kaduna North Senatorial district chairman,Alhaji Hussaini Abdullahi, in a statement insisted on democratic contest in the senatorial primaries:”We therefore ask the national leadership of the party to promptly reverse itself and clear all the aspirants. Let the votes of our members be the final arbiter.” Meanwhile, a group known as Kaduna Central Peoples Forum, commended President Muhamnadu Buhari and the national leadership of the APC for granting senator representing Kaduna central senatorial district, Shehu Sani’s automatic ticket. In a statement issued by chairman of the forum and secretary, Dr. Hamid Mustapha and Mallam Nafiu Waziri said: “Its shameless that the people who rejected direct primaries and opted for indirect primaries so as to use it to impose their anointed candidates are now crying wolf. Even two ministers serving under President Buhari were disqualified and heavens did not fall” the statement said. ENDs