Chairman of the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa has threw his weight behind the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), cancelling yesterday’s Governorship primary in Zamfara state. The decision followed the recommendation of Professor Abu Fari led governorship primary for Zamfara state. Marafa who is one of the aspirants in a statement blamed Governor Yari for the violence that erupted in some parts of the state during the exercise. He said the call for the continuation of the poll despite the violence orchestrated by Yari and his co- travellers was the height of lawlessness, stupidity and wickedness. ” Yari set the state on fire just to perfect his plot to upturn the people’s will and force his stooge on the party and by extension the state with the sole aim of continuing with his misrule through proxy after May 29, 2019,” he said. He said the Primary election was postponed thrice and that after an exhaustive meeting with all security agencies, 9 Gov aspirants, INEC and the Committee sent from Abuja on Tuesday, it was unanimously agreed that the election should hold yesterday, Wednesday. He said shortly after the distribution of election materials, the aspirant agents raised alarm that the ballot papers given to them were not up to 10% of the registered party members in their wards. Marafa added that the development forced the committee chairman to summon an emergency meeting in the office of the CP to address the issue. ” In attendance at the meeting was all the aspirants and heads of other security agencies. The chairman called the National chairman of APC Chief Adams Oshiomhole who spoke individually with all the aspirants, in the end all the aspirants agreed that the ballot papers should be set aside and direct method of people queuing behind the candidate of their choice be adopted. The National chairman thereafter gave approval that the system be employed. He said the Election went on very fine in many wards and results started coming out, then suddenly violence erupted in major towns where desperate Gov officials organize thugs to attack party members especially women. He said the development forced the chairman of the election committee to quickly cancel the election to halt the crisis. ” It is partinent to mention here that Gov candidate lost in all the wards where elections held. ” Hours after the cancellation desperate Gov Yari went on air to announce that election will continue today (Thursday) without even condoling and sympathizing with the families of the deceased and the injured persons,” he said He urged the members of the party and the entire people of the state to remain calm, abide by the decision of the national committee and await further announcement