A former governor of Oyo State, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, on Sunday emerged as the governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in Oyo state. Akala’s political aide, Mr Wale Owu confirmed the development on Sunday while appearing on an Ibadan based radio station, Fresh FM 105.9 political affairs programme, Crossfire, which was monitored by our correspondent. According to Owu, Akala decamped from the All Progressives Congress (APC) on October 1, 2018. It would be recalled that Alao-Akala was one of the seven aspirants cleared by the National Working Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress to contest the Oyo State governorship primary, which held last week Saturday. But Akala boycotted the primary on the ground that the incumbent Governor Abiola Ajimobi had perfected all arrangements to favour his anointed candidate, whom Akala said would be Joseph Tegbe, an international consultant. Things, however took a different turn at the primary when Tegbe stepped down from the primary, alongside three other aspirants and declaring support for the eventual winner, Adebayo Adelabu, a former deputy governor (operations) at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).Meanwhile, a statement issued by the Head, New Media and Public Affairs, Alao-Akala Campaign Organisation, Mr Jeremiah Akande also confirmed the development adding that a ratification exercise carried out on Saturday 6th of October, 2018 at the party’s secretariat along Mokola Sango-U.I Road, Oremeji, Mokola Ibadan was witnessed by the national officers of the party. “Former Governor of Oyo state Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala was today (yesterday) issued a Certificate of Return as Gubernatorial Candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in Oyo State for next year’s General election. “This came to being after a Ratification exercise carried out on Saturday 6th of October, 2018 at the Party’s Secretariat along Mokola Sango-U.I Road, Oremeji, Mokola Ibadan where Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala emerged as the gubernatorial candidate of the party. “The process which had National officers of the Party from Abuja led by Dr. (Mrs.) Oliza the National Organizing Secretary of the party and Hon. Iboro Ige-Edaba who is the National Treasurer in attendance was witnessed by INEC officials from the State headquarters in Ibadan. “In view of the above, all faithful and loyal   supporters of His Excellency, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala are hereby enjoined to collapse all structures and groups within the Alao-Akala political family into the Action Democratic Party (ADP) with immediate effect.”